---
layout: post.en
title: Groonga 2.0.4 has been released
---

## Groonga 2.0.4 has been released

[Groonga 2.0.4](/docs/news.html#release-2-0-4) has been released!

How to install: [Install](/docs/install.html)

There are three topics for this release.

-   Added nginx based HTTP server
-   Improved documents
-   Improved geo_distance to reduce limitations

### Added nginx based HTTP server

Groonga provides a minimal built-in [HTTP server](/docs/executables/groonga-http.html) functionality.

As groonga does not support security related stuff, you need to use alternative solution to restrict the connection source. (Example: iptables)

Groonga 2.0.4 privides new command, `groonga-httpd` . `groonga-httpd` processes HTTP requests by embedded nginx. (groonga stil supports `--protocol` option with "http")

As a result, you can benefit from advanced features of nginx.

There are many advantages by using nginx based `groonga-httpd`.

-   Support filter include gzip
-   HTTP1.1 Keep-alive and pipelined connections support
-   Customize access log formats
-   Access control based on client IP address and HTTP Basic authentication
-   Limiting the number of simultaneous connections or requests coming from one address
-   SSL and TLS SNI support
-   Name based virtual server
-   Benefit from stability that nginx proved

See [groonga-httpd](docs/executables/groonga-httpd.html) about nginx based HTTP server.

Note that `groonga-httpd` supports Debian/Ubuntu/CentOS/Fedora distribution only. `groonga-httpd` does not support Windows currently.
`groonga-httpd` support will be added in the future release.

### Improved documents

The documentation was updated. We will update the documentation continuously in the future.

We improved the description about [grn_expr](/docs/reference/grn_expr.html) which is an object that searches records with specified conditions and manipulates a database.

Also, added descriptions about full text search, phrase search, prefix search condition, suffix search condition and so on.

There are a schema definition and sample data with execution example, you can try examples immediately about [query syntax](/docs/reference/grn_expr/query_syntax.html).

### Improved geo\_distance to reduce limitations

Groonga provides built-in functions which calculates the value of distance between two geo graphical points.

And you can select the method of approximation how to approximate the geographical features within square approximation, spherical approximation or ellipsoid approximation.

There are the limitations that geo_distance can not calculate the value of distance across the meridian, the date line or the equator accurately.

This release partially improves the problem if you use square approximation.

For example, if there are points in northern hemisphere, [geo_distance](/docs/functions/geo_distance.html) returns the accurate value of distance even thought the line connecting the two points accorss the boundary.

### Conclusion

See [Release 2.0.4 2012/06/29](/docs/news.html#release-2-0-4) about detailed changes since 2.0.3.

Let’s search by groonga!
