---
layout: post.en
title: Groonga 2.0.6 has been released
description: Groonga 2.0.6 has been released!
---

h2. Groonga 2.0.6 has been released

"Groonga 2.0.6":/docs/news.html#release-2-0-5 has been released!

How to install: "Install":/docs/install.html

There are three topics for this release.

* Supported to search the records which does not contain the specified words
* Added the documentation about groonga for server use
* Supported http_rewrite_module for groonga-httpd

h3. Supported to search the records which does not contain the specified words

This release began to support searching the records which does not contain the specified words.

You can search the records which does not contain 'tomorrow' by following query: (This example use a table named diaries which has the column named content.)

<pre>
select diaries --match_columns content --query "-tomorrow" --query_flags ALLOW_LEADING_NOT
</pre>

Note that you must use @--query_flags@ with @ALLOW_LEADING_NOT@. Don't use @ALLOW_LEADING_NOT@ frequently since it is a heavy processing.

There is another useful option in @--query_flags@.

Usually, @--query@ with "title:keywords" parameter is treated as "Search keywords from title column". This is the spec of groonga full-text search.

So, you can not search the records without interpreting the specified keyword. There is a problem if the specified keyword contained ':'.

You can specify @'NONE'@ as a parameter of @--query_flags@ option in such a case.

Here is a example to search "todo:":

<pre>
select diaries --match_columns content --query "todo:" --query_flags NONE
</pre>

There are many parameter with "--query_flags option":/docs/reference/commands/select.html#query-flags .

h3. Added the documentation about groonga for server use

The documentation was added. We will update the documentation continuously in the future.

This release provides a hint to choice groonga as a full-text search engine for server use.

There are two protocol (GQTP and HTTP) which groonga provides. Also, groonga provides two independent implementation about HTTP protocol.

You may be confused what to choose. So, we documented "the comparison table about groonga for server use":/docs/server/http/comparison.html. 

h3. Supported http_rewrite_module for groonga-httpd

This release began to support PCRE auto detection for groonga-httpd. As a result, http_rewrite_module has been enabled in this release.

See nginx website about "@http_rewrite_module@":http://wiki.nginx.org/HttpRewriteModule details:

  


h3. Conclusion

See "Release 2.0.6 2012/08/29":/docs/news.html#release-2-0-6 about detailed changes since 2.0.5.

Let's search by groonga!
