---
layout: post.en
title: Groonga 2.1.0 has been released
description: Groonga 2.1.0 has been released!
---

Since groonga 2.0.0 had been released, many improvements, changes, or bug fixes was shipped. So it is a time to increment minor version (2.1.0) instead of micro version (2.0.x)! :-)

h2. Groonga 2.1.0 has been released

"Groonga 2.1.0":/docs/news.html#release-2-1-0 has been released!

How to install: "Install":/docs/install.html

There are three topics for this release.

* Supported the expression as @snippet_html()@ function arguments
* Supported @--normalizer@ option for @table_create@ command
* Supported continuous line in command list

h3. Supported the expression as @snippet_html()@ function arguments

This release began to support the expression as @snippet_html()@ function arguments.

Note that this is experimentally supported API, so this API would be changed in the future.

In previous release, @snippet_html()@ fuction accepts following syntax:

<pre>
  snippet_html(column name)
</pre>

In this release, snippet_html() fuction accepts following expression for example:

<pre>
  snippet_html("STRING" + "STRING")
</pre>

Here is the more concrete example what this change means.

Schema definition:

<pre>
  table_create Documents TABLE_NO_KEY
  column_create Documents title COLUMN_SCALAR ShortText
  column_create Documents content COLUMN_SCALAR Text

  table_create Terms TABLE_PAT_KEY ShortText --default_tokenizer TokenBigram
  column_create Terms document_title_index COLUMN_INDEX|WITH_POSITION Documents title
  column_create Terms document_content_index COLUMN_INDEX|WITH_POSITION Documents content
</pre>

Sample data:

<pre>
  load --table Documents
  [
  ["title", "content"],
  ["Groonga overview", "Groonga is a fast and accurate full text search engine based on inverted index."],
  ["Full text search and Instant update", "In widely used DBMSs, updates are immediately processed, for example, a newly registered record appears in the result of the next query."],
  ["Column store and aggregate query", "People can collect more than enough data in the Internet era."]
  ]
</pre>

In previous release, you can't specify multiple column as argument of @snippet_html()@ function, even if you want to search 'Groonga' from title or content column all at once and extract 'Groonga' and surrounding text from Documents table.

There was a limitation that @snippet_html()@ function accepts either title column or content column as argument in previous release.

In this release, you can specify concatenated column name and literal as argument of snippet_html.

Here is the query to search 'Groonga' from title column or content column all at once.

<pre>
  select Documents \
    --match_columns title||content --query 'Groonga' \
    --output_columns 'snippet_html(title + " " + content)' \
    --command_version 2

  [
    [0,1356406051.43579,0.000200510025024414],
    [
      [
        [1],
        [
          ["snippet_html","null"]
        ],
      [
        ["<span class=\"keyword\">Groonga</span> overview <span class=\"keyword\">Groonga</span> is a fast and accurate full text search engine based on inverted index."]
        ]
      ]
    ]
  ]
</pre>

As a result, specified keyword is surrounded by @<span>@ tag, and keyword 'Groonga' and surrounding text are extracted from title column and content column.

The literal " " is added to insert space for formatting snippet.

You can get a highlighted search results easily.

See following documentation about "snippet_html":http://groonga.org/docs/reference/functions/snippet_html.html details.

h3. Supported @--normalizer@ option for @table_create@ command

This release began to support normalizer plugin API.

groonga supports "NFKC":http://www.unicode.org/reports/tr15/ as Unicode normalizing method.

In this release, you can specify normalizer to each table.

By supporting this feature, mroonga may be able to support normalizer which is equal to MySQL COLLATION in the future.

Here is the syntax specifying normalizer.

<pre>
  table_create Terms TABLE_PAT_KEY ShortText --normalizer NormalizerAuto
</pre>

Specify @--normalizer@ option with NORMALIZER NAME when you create table.

It is equivalent to specify @KEY_NORMALIZE@ and to specify @--normalizer NormalizerAuto@.

There is no sample normalizer plugin, but there is a published API in @groonga/normalizer.h@ for developer.

h3. Supported continuous line in command list

This release began to support continuous line in command list.

In the previous release, continuous line is not accepted. So, you must write command list in line previously.

Before:

<pre>
  table_create --name Terms --flags TABLE_PAT_KEY --key_type ShortText --default_tokenizer TokenBigram
</pre>

After:

<pre>
  table_create --name Terms \
               --flags TABLE_PAT_KEY \
               --key_type ShortText \
               --default_tokenizer TokenBigram
</pre>

Now, you can write command list with continuous line which is represented by @'\'@ character.

    
h3. Conclusion

See "Release 2.0.9 2012/11/29":/docs/news.html#release-2-0-9 about detailed changes since 2.0.9.

Let's search by groonga!
