---
layout: post.en
title: Groonga 2.0.2 has been released
---
h2. Groonga 2.0.2 has been released

"Groonga 2.0.2":/docs/news.html#release-2-0-2 has been released!

How to install: "Install":/docs/install.html

There are three topics for this release:

* The package sign key is changed
* Supported similar search!
* Added suggest page for administration page

h3. The package sign key is changed

The package sign key is changed since this release. Here is the new sign key:

<pre>
% gpg --list-keys --fingerprint 45499429
pub   1024D/45499429 2012-04-28
      Key fingerprint = C97E 4649 A205 1D0C EA1A  73F9 72A7 496B 4549 9429
uid                  groonga Key (groonga Official Signing Key) <packages@groonga.org>
</pre>

If you have already installed groonga packages, you need to import the new key by the followings:

Debian/Ubuntu:

<pre>
% sudo apt-get update
% sudo apt-get -V -y install groonga-keyring
</pre>

CentOS/Fedora:

<pre>
% sudo yum update
% sudo yum install --nogpgcheck -y groonga-repository
</pre>

h3. Supported similar search!

Similar search has been supported since this release!

Similar search had been implemented internally but you can't use it by @select@ command.

You can use similar search by @select --filter "column *S 'TEXT'"@ . It means that groonga searches records that their document in @column@ is similar to @'TEXT'@ .

h3. Added suggest page for administration page!

Groonga has browser based administration tool. It supports "suggest":/doc/suggest.html .

Supported suggest feature is only search against existent suggest dataset for now. Other features like creating suggest dataset, learning, correcting learned data and so on aren't supported yet.

h3. Conclusion

See "Release 2.0.2 - 2012/04/29":/docs/news.html#release-2-0-2 about detailed changes since 2.0.1.

Let's search by groonga!
