---
layout: post.en
title: Groonga 2.0.8 has been released
description: Groonga 2.0.8 has been released!
---

Groonga fulltext search engine meetup
-------------------------------------

We hold a event groonga fulltext search engine session next month!

-   Location: VOYAGE GROUP, Inc. Shibuya First Place Bldg. 8F Seminar
    room Shinsen-cho 8-16, Shibuya, Tokyo [Google
    Maps](https://www.google.co.jp/maps?q=35.6553195,139.6937795)
-   Date: 2012/11/29 19:00 - 21:00 JST (Open: 18:30, Party starts 21:00)
-   Reservation: via [ATND event page](http://atnd.org/events/33070)

See [ATND event page](http://atnd.org/events/33070) about event details.

Now, we are looking for the speakers! Deadline for submission is Nov
04 23:59, 2012 (JST). There is a benefit for the speaker that fee of
party is free.

NOTE: ATND is the web site which support to announce event and keep
track of who's attending.

Groonga 2.0.8 has been released
-------------------------------

[Groonga 2.0.8](/docs/news.html#release-2-0-8) has been released!

How to install: [Install](/docs/install.html)

There are two topics for this release.

-   Supported custom query expansion by plugin
-   Supported Ubuntu 12.10 (Quantal Quetzal)

### Supported custom query expansion by plugin

This release began to support custom query expansion by plugin.

Groonga already supports query expansion, but it requires table which
stores synonyms beforehand.

Here is the more concrete example.

Schema definition:

      table_create Memos TABLE_NO_KEY
      column_create Memos content COLUMN_SCALAR ShortText
      table_create Lexicon TABLE_PAT_KEY ShortText --default_tokenizer TokenBigram
      column_create Lexicon diary_content COLUMN_INDEX|WITH_POSITION Memos content
      table_create Synonyms TABLE_PAT_KEY ShortText
      column_create Synonyms words COLUMN_SCALAR ShortText

Sample data:

      load --table Memos
      [
      ["content"],
      ["Start groonga!"],
      ["Start mroonga!"],
      ["Start rroonga!"],
      ["Start Ruby!"],
      ["Learning Ruby and groonga..."],
      ]

      load --table Synonyms
      [
      ["_key", "words"],
      ["groonga", "(groonga OR rroonga OR mroonga)"]
      ]

If you want to search 'groonga' with expanded query 'rroonga' and
'mroonga', you need to setup synonyms table 'Synonyms' at first.
Then, you can search 'groonga' with automatically expanded keyword
'rroonga' and 'mroonga' from content column of Memos table.

Here is the query to search 'groonga' with query expansion.

      > select --table Memos --query_expansion Synonyms.words --match_columns content --query groonga

      [[0,1350898793.34538,0.00174403190612793],
       [
        [[4],
         [
          ["_id","UInt32"],["content","ShortText"]],
          [1,"Start groonga!"],
          [5,"Learning Ruby and groonga..."],
          [3,"Start rroonga!"],
          [2,"Start mroonga!"]
        ]
       ]
      ]

On the other hand, custom query expansion by plugin has supported. As
proof of concept, example plugin `QueryExpanderTSV` is bundled in this
release.

Here is the more concrete example how to use `QueryExpanderTSV`.

Using `QueryExpanderTSV`, you doesn't need to setup table for synonyms
anymore. There are two differences between builtin query expansion and
`QueryExpanderTSV`.

-   Describe tab separated text file
-   Specify plugin name to `--query_expansion`

Here is the example about tab separated file with synonyms.

      groonga[TAB]groonga[TAB]rroonga[TAB]mroonga

Here is the query to search 'groonga' with `QueryExpanderTSV`.

      > select --table Memos --query_expansion QueryExpanderTSV --match_columns content --query groonga

This query is equivalent to following:

      --query "((groonga) OR (rroonga) OR (mroonga))" 

The synonyms template file is installed as `/etc/groonga/synonyms.tsv`.
You can customize this file on your purpose.

If you want to put somewhere else, set
`GRN_QUERY_EXPANDER_TSV_SYNONYMS_FILE` environment variable.

### Supported Ubuntu 12.10 (Quantal Quetzal)

Ubuntu 12.10 Quantal Quetzal had been released Oct 18, 2012.

This release began to support Ubuntu 12.10 by providing deb packages.

### Conclusion

See [Release 2.0.8 2012/10/29](/docs/news.html#release-2-0-8) about
detailed changes since 2.0.7.

Let's search by groonga!
