---
layout: post.en
title: Groonga 3.0.9 has been released
description: Groonga 3.0.9 has been released!
---

h2. Groonga 3.0.9 has been released

"Groonga 3.0.9":/docs/news.html#release-3-0-9 has been released!

How to install: "Install":/docs/install.html

There are three topics in this release.

* Supported groonga-cache-limit directive for groonga-httpd
* Added documentation about performance tuning
* Supported Ubuntu 13.10 (Saucy Salamander)

h3. Supported groonga-cache-limit directive for groonga-httpd

Groonga provides HTTP server as groonga-httpd based on nginx.
In this release, groonga-httpd has supported new directive - @groonga_cache_limit@ which enables customizing the size of cache.

By adding this directive, you can customize the size of cache for each worker processes at once.

Here is the sample configuration in location block.

<pre>
location /d/ {
  groonga on;
  # You can customize query cache limit for groonga.
  groonga_cache_limit 100;
}
</pre>

In the previous versions, you can't customize the size of cache for multiple worker processes at once.
If you execute @cache_limit@ command, it is not guranteed that the size of cache is updated for all worker. It means that specific worker may accept @cache_limit@ command many times.
You can solve this issue by @groonga_cache_limit@ directive.

h3. Added documentation about performance tuning

We added documentation about performance tuning in this release.

When Groonga processes enormous number of records, there is a case that Groonga performance issue occurs.
Maybe such a problem derives from the number of records.
You need to solve the issues - the number of limitation which process can handle, usage of memory, and so on.

See following documentation about "tuning":http://groonga.org/docs/reference/tuning.html .

h3. Supported Ubuntu 13.10 (Saucy Salamander)

We began to support Ubuntu 13.10 which is released at Oct 17, 2013.

See following "documentation":http://groonga.org/docs/install/ubuntu.html#saucy-salamander how to install Groonga on Ubuntu 13.10.

  

h3. Conclusion

See "Release 3.0.9 2013/10/29":/docs/news.html#release-3-0-9 about detailed changes since 3.0.8.

Let's search by Groonga!
