---
layout: post.en
title: Groonga 3.1.0 has been released
description: Groonga 3.1.0 has been released!
---

Groonga 3.1.0 has been released
-------------------------------

[Groonga 3.1.0](/docs/news.html#release-3-1-0) has been released!

How to install: [Install](/docs/install.html)

There are three topics in this release.

### Supported an option to skip updating for the same value

Groonga now supports option to skip updating for the same value. This
feature is enabled by setting GRN_JA_SKIP_SAME_VALUE_PUT=yes as
environment variable.

If you install Groonga as deb or rpm packages, you can customize default
configuration file.

    #GRN_JA_SKIP_SAME_VALUE_PUT=yes

Here are the list of configuration files.

Debian or Ubuntu:

    /etc/default/groonga-httpd
    /etc/default/groonga-server-http
    /etc/default/groonga-server-gqtp

CentOS or Fedora:

    /etc/sysconfig/groonga-httpd
    /etc/sysconfig/groonga-server-http
    /etc/sysconfig/groonga-server-gqtp
    /etc/systemd/groonga-httpd
    /etc/systemd/groonga-server-http
    /etc/systemd/groonga-server-gqtp

Groonga inevitable to increase the size of database by updating column
of variable length in long term.

By setting this environment variable, Groonga doesn't update column of
variable length if the same value is given.

This option is disabled in the default because this feature is not
stabilized yet. There is a case that the size of database increases
conversely.

### Conclusion

See [Release 3.1.0 2013/11/29](/docs/news.html#release-3-1-0) about
detailed changes since 3.0.9.

Let's search by Groonga!
