---
layout: post.en
title: Groonga 3.0.0 has been released
description: Groonga 3.0.0 has been released!
---

h2. Groonga 3.0.0 has been released

"Groonga 3.0.0":/docs/news.html#release-3-0-0 has been released!

How to install: "Install":/docs/install.html

Since groonga 2.0.0 had been released, many improvements, changes, or bug fixes was shipped.

Here are brief topics ever released:

* Renew project logo (2.0.1)
* Supported Ubuntu 12.04 (Precise Pangolin) (2.0.2)
* Supported similar search! (2.0.2)
* Supported CMake (2.0.2/2.0.3)
* Added nginx based HTTP server (2.0.4)
* Improved geo_distance to reduce limitations (2.0.4)
* Added a document about Travis CI integration (2.0.4)
* Supported Fedora 17  (2.0.5)
* Supported near search by 'column *N "word1 word2 ..."' in script syntax (2.0.5)
* Improved groonga-httpd (Support to customize base path, to access multiple DB) (2.0.5)
* Supported to search the records which does not contain the specified words (2.0.5)
* Added the documentation about groonga for server use (2.0.6)
* Supported http_rewrite_module for groonga-httpd 
* Supported to load command by POST (2.0.7)
* Changed package name and port number for server use (2.0.7)
* Supported min and max function (2.0.7)
* Supported custom query expansion by plugin (2.0.8)
* Supported Ubuntu 12.10 (Quantal Quetzal) (2.0.8)
* Supported snippet_html() function (2.0.9)
* Supported range search by using index (2.0.9)
* Supported nested index search among related table by column index (2.1.0)
* Supported to create own normalizer as a plugin (2.1.0)
* Supported multiple query() in a select command (2.1.2)
* Supported Nested index search among related table by column index with range search (2.1.2)
* Supported Fedora 18 (2.1.2)

We had renewed groonga logos, migrated package maintenance by groonga developer teams.
Not only adding impressive features, providing packages for server use, it became easy to install.

We also could make many bug fixes and improvements based on your feedbacks, thanks!

h3. Conclusion

See "Release 3.0.0 2013/02/09":/docs/news.html#release-3-0-0 about detailed changes since 2.1.2.

Let's search by groonga!
