---
layout: post.en
title: Groonga 3.0.6 has been released
description: Groonga 3.0.6 has been released!
published: false
---


h2. Groonga 3.0.6 has been released

"Groonga 3.0.6":/docs/news.html#release-3-0-6 has been released!

How to install: "Install":/docs/install.html

There are two topics for this release.

* Supported backslash escape in query syntax
* Supported Fedora 19

h3. Supported backslash escape in query syntax

In this release, we began to support backslash escape in query syntax.

See "escape":http://groonga.org/docs/reference/grn_expr/query_syntax.html#escape documentation about sepecial characters which needs escape in query syntax.

For example, there is a special character such as @(@. If you want to search @(@ itself, you need to pass @\(@ to groonga.

But, there are some layers until query is actually passed, you need to escape carefully.

There are three layers between shell and query parser.

* Shell (such as bash, ...)
* groonga command line interface (groonga command prompt)
* groonga query parser

In fact, you need to pass @\(@ to groonga query parser. To accomplish above, consider how to escape each layer.

* groonga query parser requires @\(@
* groonga command line interface consumes escape, so @\\\(@ is required.
* Shell consumes escape, so @\\\\\\(@ is required.
    
Confirm above step by step.

Here is the sample schema and data (escape.grn):

<pre>
table_create Memos TABLE_PAT_KEY ShortText

table_create Contents TABLE_PAT_KEY ShortText  --default_tokenizer TokenDelimit --normalizer NormalizerAuto
column_create Contents entries_key_index COLUMN_INDEX Memos _key

load --table Memos
[
{"_key": "(example)"}
]
</pre>
  
Load sample schema and data (Zsh command line for example):

<pre>
% groonga -n testdb/db < escape.grn
</pre>

Here is the escaped query to search '(example' on shell layer.

<pre>
% groonga testdb/db select Memos --match_columns _key --query "\\\\\\(example"
</pre>

Here is the escaped query to search '(example' on groonga command line interface layer.

<pre>
% groonga testdb/db
> select Memos --match_columns _key --query "\\\(example"
</pre>

We show the concrete example how to escape on each layer in the case which use double quote. The similar rule is applied even though single quote.

h3. Supported Fedora 19

In this release, we began to support Fedora 19 which is released at July 2, 2013.

Instead, we have stopped Fedora 18 support.

We have been released rpm packages under Fedora projects, but there is a time lag until rpm packages are released from Fedora projects repository.
So we also provide rpm packages under groonga repository.

As the contents of rpm packages is same, there is no difference between groonga reppsitory's rpm and Fedora projects's rpm.

h3. Conclusion

See "Release 3.0.6 2013/07/29":/docs/news.html#release-3-0-6 about detailed changes since 3.0.5.

Let's search by groonga!
