---
layout: post.en
title: Groonga 3.0.7 has been released
description: Groonga 3.0.7 has been released!
---

Groonga 3.0.7 has been released
-------------------------------

[Groonga 3.0.7](/docs/news.html#release-3-0-7) has been released!

How to install: [Install](/docs/install.html)

There are two topics for this release.

-   Added API documentation
-   Supported log related groonga-httpd directives

### Added API documentation

There is no API documentation for a long time. We wrote the following
entry in the past.

-   [We want a person who improve API documentation
    together](http://groonga.org/ja/blog/2013/07/22/api-documentation.html)
    [written in japanese]

Luckily, we had been able to find the person who works for API
documentation together. As a result,
`whombx had done many contribution by sending pull requests for groonga API documentation. We thank `whombx
for that great work.

Now, we can release that outcome in this release even though translation
task is not fully finished yet.

### Supported log related groonga-httpd directives

There is a HTTP server package which is based on nginx. It is provided
to support more functionality for groonga user.

In this release, groonga-httpd supports new directives which is related
to logging.

-   groonga_log_path
-   groonga_log_level

groonga_log_path is used for specifying the path where to save log.
groonga_log_level is used for specifying the level of logging. In the
previous version, default value is applied to both of them.

Usually, the path is specified to groonga_log_path, but you can
disable logging by specifying 'off' to groonga_log_path.

For example, it can be disabled.

    location /d/ {
      groonga_log_path off;
    }

See the following documentation about
[groonga_log_path](http://groonga.org/docs/reference/executables/groonga-httpd.html#groonga-log-path)
directive.

On the other hand, you can custimize log level by groonga_log_level
directive.

There is a list which is used for groonga_log_level directive. The
default value is 'notice'.

-   emergency
-   alert
-   critical
-   error
-   warning
-   notice
-   debug
-   dump
-   none

You can disable logging by specifying 'none' to groonga_log_level.

See the following documentation about
[groonga_log_level](http://groonga.org/docs/reference/executables/groonga-httpd.html#groonga-log-level)
directive.

groonga-httpd also supports new directives which is related to max query
cache.

-   groonga_cache_limit

It is applied to all workers. Here is the configuration example which
set cache limit to 1000.

    http {
        groonga_cache_limit 1000;
        ...
    }

If you want to apply multiple query cache limit, use multiple
groonga-httpd.conf.

### Conclusion

See [Release 3.0.7 2013/08/29](/docs/news.html#release-3-0-7) about
detailed changes since 3.0.6.

Let's search by groonga!
