---
layout: post.en
title: Groonga 3.0.3 has been released
description: Groonga 3.0.3 has been released!
---

Groonga 3.0.3 has been released
-------------------------------

[Groonga 3.0.3](/docs/news.html#release-3-0-3) has been released!

How to install: [Install](/docs/install.html)

There are two topics for this release.

-   Supported to learn with the value of customized weight
-   Supported to build customized groonga without changing spec file
-   Notice release process about Fedora 18
-   Supported Ubuntu 13.04 Raring Ringtail

### Supported to learn with the value of customized weight

In this release, learning with the value of customized weight has been
supported.

groonga supports three
[suggest](http://groonga.org/docs/suggest/introduction.html) related
functionality such as completion, correction and suggestion.

There is a need to learn properly for satisfying your demands.

If you want to change the value of weight for each season, you need to
re-learn some times for same data.

This way has a performance penalty for big data.

So, we has supported to customize the value of weight, there is no need
to learn multiple times for same data.

There is only one thing you need to do is customising configuration
table before loading target data.

Here is the concrete example such as suggesting in season vegetable.

First, make database for example.

    % mkdir -p testdb
    % groonga -n testdb/db shutdown

Second, make a table for learning by `groonga-suggest-create-dataset`
command.

    % groonga-suggest-create-dataset testdb/db query

At last, prepare dataset for learning. Note that changing the value of
weight configuration before loading "cabbage" data.

    load --table event_query --each 'suggest_preparer(_id, type, item, sequence, time, pair_query)'
    [
    {"sequence": "1", "time": 1312950808.86057, "item": "tomato in season vegetables", "type": "submit"}
    {"sequence": "1", "time": 1312950808.86057, "item": "sweet potato in season vegetables", "type": "submit"}
    {"sequence": "1", "time": 1312950808.86057, "item": "chinese cabbage in season vegetables", "type": "submit"}
    ]

    load --table configuration
    [
    {"_key": "query", "weight": 10}
    ]

    load --table event_query --each 'suggest_preparer(_id, type, item, sequence, time, pair_query)'
    [
    {"sequence": "1", "time": 1312950803.86057, "item": "cabbage in season vegetables", "type": "submit"},
    ]

So, let's try to use suggestion functionality. Here is the query to get
suggestion result in season vegetables.

    suggest --table item_query --column kana --types suggest --frequency_threshold 1 --query season

As a result, there are four results and you know that cabbage is in the
best season by suggestion score.

    [
      [0,1366613297.59312,0.000118494033813477],
      {
        "suggest":[[4],
                   [
                     ["_key","ShortText"],["_score","Int32"]],
                     ["cabbage in season vegetables",10],
                     ["tomato in season vegetables",1],
                     ["chinese cabbage in season vegetables",1],
                     ["sweet potato in season vegetables",1]
                   ]
      }
    ]

Previously, you need to do learning many times by followings way to
achieve same effects.

    load --table event_query --each 'suggest_preparer(_id, type, item, sequence, time, pair_query)'
    [
    {"sequence": "1", "time": 1312950803.86057, "item": "cabbage in season vegetables", "type": "submit"},
    {"sequence": "1", "time": 1312950803.86057, "item": "cabbage in season vegetables", "type": "submit"},
    {"sequence": "1", "time": 1312950803.86057, "item": "cabbage in season vegetables", "type": "submit"},
    {"sequence": "1", "time": 1312950803.86057, "item": "cabbage in season vegetables", "type": "submit"},
    ...

### Supported to build customized groonga without changing spec file

This release began to add a parameter for building customized version of
groonga.

For example, if you want to customize stack size which groonga uses, you
need to change the spec file about `--with-stack-size=` option.

    %configure 
      --disable-static 
      --with-package-platform=redhat 
      --with-stack-size=4096 
      --with-zlib 
    %if %{use_lzo}
      --with-lzo 
    %endif
      --with-munin-plugins

In this release, you can specify additional parameter as a rpmbuild
command's one. There is no need to modify spec file directly.

    % rpmbuild --rebuild --define 'additional_configure_options --with-stach-size=4096' groonga-3.0.3-0.el6.src.rpm

### Notice release process about Fedora 18

Since groonga 3.0.2 release, we had stopped to provide groonga packages
by self hosted yum repository.
Instead, we only provides groonga packages via Fedora official yum
repository.

There is no need for Fedora users to regist groonga self hosted
repository now.

We cooperate with Mr. Daiki Ueno who maintaines groonga packages so far
in Fedora official repository.

But there is a bit time lag about two or three weeks until you can
install latest release.

### Supported Ubuntu 13.04 Raring Ringtail

This release began to support Ubuntu 13.04 Raring Ringtail which is
released at Apr 25, 2013.

See the [install
documentation](http://groonga.org/docs/install/ubuntu.html#raring-ringrail)
about details.

### Conclusion

See [Release 3.0.3 2013/04/29](/docs/news.html#release-3-0-3) about
detailed changes since 3.0.2.

Let's search by groonga!
