---
layout: post.en
title: Groonga 3.0.1 has been released
description: Groonga 3.0.1 has been released!
---

Groonga 3.0.1 has been released
-------------------------------

[Groonga 3.0.1](/docs/news.html#release-3-0-1) has been released!

How to install: [Install](/docs/install.html)

There are two topics for this release.

-   Supported to set Bool to reference column when loading dataset by
    load command
-   Supported AND operation for nested index

### Supported to set Bool to reference column when loading dataset by load command

In the previous release, you can't load dataset into reference column
which refers Bool column by load command.

For example, try following the schema and load the datasets:

      table_create Bools TABLE_HASH_KEY Bool

      table_create  Entries           TABLE_HASH_KEY ShortText
      column_create Entries published COLUMN_SCALAR  Bools

      load --table Entries
      [
      {"_key": "Special news!",  "published": true},
      {"_key": "Supprise news!", "published": false}
      ]

For confirming whether load commands succeeds, execute select Entries:

      [
        [
          [2],
          [
            ["_id","UInt32"],
            ["_key","ShortText"],
            ["published","Bools"]
          ],
          [1,"Special news!",false],
          [2,"Supprise news!",false]
        ]
      ]

You know the value of "published" column is not loaded properly.

In this release, this limitation is fixed!

See the results of 'select Entries' command. This is the intended
results.

      [
        [
          [2],
          [
            ["_id","UInt32"],
            ["_key","ShortText"],
            ["published","Bools"]
          ],
          [1,"Special news!",true],
          [2,"Supprise news!",false]
        ]
      ]

Confirm the results of 'select Bools' command.

You know the value of reference column is properly set.

      [
        [
          [0],
          [
            ["_id","UInt32"],
            ["_key","Bool"]
          ],
          [1,true],
          [2,false]
        ]
      ]

### Supported AND operation for nested index

In this release, you can execute AND search even though nested index is
used.

Here is the schema and data:

      table_create Users TABLE_PAT_KEY ShortText
      column_create Users birthday COLUMN_SCALAR Time

      table_create Files TABLE_PAT_KEY ShortText
      column_create Files owner COLUMN_SCALAR Users

      column_create Users files_owner_index COLUMN_INDEX Files owner

      table_create Birthdays TABLE_PAT_KEY Time
      column_create Birthdays users_birthday COLUMN_INDEX Users birthday

      load --table Users
      [
      {"_key": "Alice",  "birthday": "1992-02-09 00:00:00"},
      {"_key": "Bob",    "birthday": "1988-01-04 00:00:00"},
      {"_key": "Carlos", "birthday": "1982-12-29 00:00:00"}
      ]

      load --table Files
      [
      {"_key": "/home/alice/.zshrc",                  "owner": "Alice"},
      {"_key": "/home/bob/.bashrc",                   "owner": "Bob"},
      {"_key": "/home/calros/public_html/index.html", "owner": "Carlos"}
      ]

Consider to search specific files which depends owner's birthday.

There is a column index between Files table and Users table, so two
tables are related by nested index.

You may think that following query is good enough for such a case.

      select Files 
      --filter 'owner.birthday >= "1988-01-04 00:00:00" && owner.birthday < "1992-02-09 00:00:00"' 
      --output_columns '_key, owner, owner.birthday'

      [
        [
          [2],
          [
            ["_key","ShortText"],
            ["owner","Users"],
            ["owner.birthday","Time"]
          ],
          ["/home/bob/.bashrc","Bob",568220400.0],
          ["/home/alice/.zshrc","Alice",697561200.0]
        ]
      ]

As you can see, the search results is not intended.

It seems that only the first condition is applied, but not the second
one.

It is valid that the search results contains 'Bob' is valid, but not
'Alice'.

This is because that AND search is not implemented in the previous
release.

In this release, AND search with nested index works!

      [
        [
          [1],
          [
            ["_key","ShortText"],
            ["owner","Users"],
            ["owner.birthday","Time"]
          ],
          ["/home/bob/.bashrc","Bob",568220400.0]
        ]
      ]

You can see the condition `'&& owner.birthday < "1992-02-09 00:00:00"'`
parts also works.

### Conclusion

See [Release 3.0.1 2013/02/28](/docs/news.html#release-3-0-1) about
detailed changes since 3.0.0.

Let's search by groonga!
