---
layout: post.en
title: Groonga 2.1.1 has been released
description: Groonga 2.1.1 has been released!
---

We released groonga 2.1.1 just after 2.1.0.
2.1.1 release is the bug fix release. It is the bug related @KEY_NORMALIZE@.

h2. Groonga 2.1.1 has been released

On 2012-12-29, "groonga 2.1.1":/docs/news.html#release-2-1-1 has been released.

How to install: "Install":/docs/install.html

See "Release 2.1.1 2012/12/29":/docs/news.html#release-2-1-1 about detailed changes since 2.1.0.

h3. The bug that KEY_NORMALIZE related infomations are deleted

The previous version groonga (2.1.0) has the bug that @KEY_NORMALIZE@  related infomations are deleted when it opens databases created old groonga (2.0.9 or ealier). 

@KEY_NORMALIZE@ is the value for "@flags@ option in @table_create@ command":/docs/reference/commands/table_create.html#flags. With support of @--normalizer@ option since 2.1.0, @KEY_NORMALIZE@ is deprecated. Instead of, it is recommended to specify @--normalizer@ with @NormalizerAuto@.
Because of this change, groonga updates @flags@ values from @KEY_NORMALIZE@ to @--normalizer@ with @NormalizerAuto@. However, this update was not working. This couses the bug that @KEY_NORMALIZE@ related infomations are deleted.

In 2.1.1, we has fixed this bug. If you use 2.1.0, please update groonga to 2.1.1.

h3. Note about opening databases created groonga 2.0.9 or earlier

By the support of @--normalizer@, please take care in opening your databases created 2.0.9 or earlier.
If you once open your old databases (created by no @--normalizer@ supported groonga) with new groonga (2.1.0 or later), you can't open them with old groonga.
You shouldn't use multiple versions groonga.

h3. Conclusion

Groonga 2.1.0 includes many improvements, support of continuous line in command list, support of the expression as @snippet_html()@ function arguments, and so on.
See "Release 2.1.0 2012/12/29":/docs/news.html#release-2-1-0 about detailed changes at 2.1.0.

Let's search by groonga!
