---
layout: post.en
title: Groonga 3.1.1 has been released
description: Groonga 3.1.1 has been released!
---

h2. Groonga 3.1.1 has been released

"Groonga 3.1.1":/docs/news.html#release-3-1-0 has been released!

How to install: "Install":/docs/install.html

There are following topics in this release.

* Supported geo_in_rectangle in the whole world
* Supported between function
* Supported Fedora 20
* Dropped Debian 6.0(squeeze) and Ubuntu 10.04(lucid) support

h3. Supported geo_in_rectangle in the whole world

In this release, Groonga began to support geo_in_rectangle in the whole world.

Groonga supports the geographical feature to check whether the point exists
in the rectangle area.

In the previous versions, geo_in_rectangle supports only the east longitude in the north hemisphere.
It is good enough for Groonga users who lives in Japan especially, but not for others.

Now, you can use geo_in_rectangle even though accross the prime meridian or the equator.

See "geo_in_rectangle":http://groonga.org/docs/reference/functions/geo_in_rectangle.html
documentation about details.

h3. Supported between function

In this release, Groonga began to support between function which is used for filtering the specific range value of column.

Here are a sample schema and data.

<pre>
table_create Users TABLE_HASH_KEY ShortText
column_create Users age COLUMN_SCALAR Int32
table_create Ages TABLE_HASH_KEY Int32
column_create Ages user_age COLUMN_INDEX Users age
load --table Users
[
{"_key": "Alice",  "age": 12},
{"_key": "Bob",    "age": 13},
{"_key": "Calros", "age": 14},
{"_key": "Dave",   "age": 15},
{"_key": "Eric",   "age": 16}
{"_key": "Frank",  "age": 17}
]
</pre>

In the previous versions, you need to execute following query if you want to select persons which is matched to PG-13 (MPAA) rating.

<pre>
select Users --filter 'age >= 13 && age <= 16'
</pre>

On the contrast, you can use between function to get same result now.

<pre>
select Users --filter 'between(age, 13, "include", 16, "include")'
</pre>

In the above case, it means that "search the records which matches to specific value of column from the value of range which contains 13,14,15,16".

<pre>
[
  [
    [4],
    [
      ["_id","UInt32"],["_key","ShortText"],["age","Int32"]
    ],
    [2,"Bob",13],
    [3,"Calros",14],
    [4,"Dave",15],
    [5,"Eric",16]
  ]
]
</pre>

See "between":http://groonga.org/docs/reference/functions/between.html documentation about details.

h3. Supported Fedora 20

In this release, Groonga began to support Fedora 20 which is released at Dec 17, 2013.

See following documentation how to install on "Fedora 20":http://groonga.org/docs/install/fedora.html.

Note that Fedora 19 support is dropped now.

h3. Dropped Debian 6.0(squeeze) and Ubuntu 10.04(lucid) support

In this release, Debian 6.0(squeeze) and Ubuntu 10.04(lucid) support are dropped.

See following blog entry why squeeze and lucid are dropped.

  http://groonga.org/en/blog/2013/12/16/drop-squeeze-and-lucid-support.html

h3. Conclusion

See "Release 3.1.1 2013/12/29":/docs/news.html#release-3-1-1 about detailed changes since 3.1.0.

Let's search by Groonga!
