---
layout: post.en
title: Groonga 4.0.7 has been released
description: Groonga 4.0.7 has been released!
---

## Groonga 4.0.7 has been released

[Groonga 4.0.7](/docs/news.html#release-4-0-7) has been released!

How to install: [Install](/docs/install.html)

### Changes

In this release, two big experimental features:

  * Column value compression support
  * Token filter support

#### Column value compression support

In this release, Groonga has supported column compression by zlib or LZ4.

You can save disk spaces by this feature. This feature is implemented by [@naoa_y](https://twitter.com/naoa_y). Thanks!

Here is the pros/cons:

  * zlib: compression rate is better than LZ4, but performance is not.
  * LZ4: performance is good, but compression rate is not better than Zlib.

Add `COMPRESS_ZLIB` or `COMPRESS_LZ4` flag to `flags` for `column_create`.

    column_create Entries content COLUMN_SCALAR|COMPRESS_ZLIB Text
    column_create Entries content COLUMN_SCALAR|COMPRESS_LZ4 Text

Here is the brief benchmark provided by @naoa_y. It shows characteristics of each compression.

  * https://github.com/groonga/groonga/pull/221#issuecomment-59627302
  * https://github.com/groonga/groonga/pull/223#issue-46381569

#### Token filter support

In this release, Groonga has supported token filters.

There are two token filters.

  * [TokenFilterStopWord](/docs/reference/token_filters.html#token-filter-stop-word)
  * [TokenFilterStem](/docs/reference/token_filters.html#token-filter-stem)

##### `TokenFilterStopWord`

If you use `TokenFilterStopWord`, token which is registered as stop word is just ignored.

Here is the sample query to setup the lexicon and stop word:

    table_create Terms TABLE_PAT_KEY ShortText \
      --default_tokenizer TokenBigram \
      --normalizer NormalizerAuto \
      --token_filters TokenFilterStopWord
    column_create Terms memos_content COLUMN_INDEX|WITH_POSITION Memos content
    column_create Terms is_stop_word COLUMN_SCALAR Bool
    load --table Terms
    [
    {"_key": "and", "is_stop_word": true}
    ]

You need to create `is_stop_word` column and register stop word as `_key` column. Note that the value of `is_stop_word` must be true.

Since `"and"` is registered as stop word, if you search `"Hello and"`, Groonga ignores `"and"` from query, then it returns search results as if you just search `"Hello"`.

See [documentation](/docs/reference/token_filters.html#token-filter-stop-word) about `TokenFilterStopWord`.

##### `TokenFilterStem`

`TokenFilterStem` supports stemming feature. This feature is accomplished by using libstemmer.

Here is the sample to use `TokenFilterStem`:

    table_create Terms TABLE_PAT_KEY ShortText \
      --default_tokenizer TokenBigram \
      --normalizer NormalizerAuto \
      --token_filters TokenFilterStem

When creating the lexicon table, you need to specify `--token_filters TokenFilterStem`.

Now, even though search query is `"develop"`, the stemming library regards as same as `"developing"` or `"developed"`, search result contains those keywords.

See [documentation](/docs/reference/token_filters.html#token-filter-stem) about `TokenFilterStem`.

### For Debian users

Groonga package has been included in the official Debian repository. sid users can install Groonga from the official Debian repository.

### For Ubuntu users

Groonga project provides package for Ubuntu 14.10.

### Conclusion

See [Release 4.0.7 2014/10/29](/docs/news.html#release-4-0-7) about detailed changes since 4.0.6.

Let's search by Groonga!
