---
layout: post.en
title: Groonga 4.0.0 has been released
description: Groonga 4.0.0 has been released!
published: false
---

h2. Groonga 4.0.0 has been released

"Groonga 4.0.0":/docs/news.html#release-4-0-0 has been released!

How to install: "Install":/docs/install.html

Since Groonga 3.0.0 had been released, many improvements, changes, or bug fixes was shipped.

Here are brief topics ever released:

* Supported more binary operations for built-in types. (3.0.2)
* Added "sub_filter":/docs/reference/functions/sub_filter.html function. (3.0.2)
* Supported query expander in query() function. (3.0.2)
* Supported Ubuntu 13.04 Raring Ringtail. (3.0.3)
* Supported to learn with the value of customized weight by using configuration.weight configuration. (3.0.3)
* Supported vector index access by "vector[N]" syntax. (3.0.3)
* Dropped Ubuntu 11.10 (Oneiric Ocelot) support. (3.0.4)
* Supported "tokenize":/docs/reference/commands/tokenize.html command. (3.0.4)
* Supported Debian 8.0 (jessie). (3.0.4)
* Added "html_untag":/docs/reference/functions/html_untag.html function. (3.0.5)
* Supported Fedora 19. (3.0.6)
* Dropped Fedora 18 support. (3.0.6)
* Added API documentation. (3.0.7)
* Supported log related directives for groonga-httpd. (3.0.7)
* Supported loading data using POST method for groonga-httpd. (3.0.7)
* Supported "cascade delete":/docs/reference/commands/delete.html#cascade-delete to referenced records. (3.0.8)
* Added experimental "ruby_eval":/docs/reference/commands/ruby_eval.html command. (3.0.8)
* Supported Ubuntu 13.10 (Saucy Salamander). (3.0.9)
* Added experimental "ruby_load":/docs/reference/commands/ruby_load.html command. (3.0.9)
* Supported an option to skip updating for the same value. (3.1.0)
* Dropped Debian 6.0 (squeeze) support. (3.1.1)
* Dropped Ubuntu 10.04 (lucid) support. (3.1.1)
* Supported "geo_in_rectangle":/docs/reference/functions/geo_in_rectangle.html in the whole world. (3.1.1)
* Supported "between":/docs/reference/functions/between.html function which is used for filtering the column value in specific range.
* Dropped Fedora 19. (3.1.1)
* Supported Fedora 20. (3.1.1)
* Enabled GRN_JA_SKIP_SAME_VALUE_PUT by default. (3.1.2)
* Supported to customize the value of lock timeout. (3.1.2)
* Dropped Ubuntu 13.04 support. (4.0.0)
* Supported to show "checks" which is used for calculating next character position for normalizer. (4.0.0)

We could make many bug fixes and improvements based on your feedbacks, thanks!

During 3.x release, we had decided to use capitalized project name "Groonga". Please use "Groonga" instead of "groonga" if you introduce "Groonga" to your colleague.

h3. Conclusion

See "Release 4.0.0 2014/02/09":/docs/news.html#release-4-0-0 about detailed changes since 3.1.2.

Let's search by Groonga!
