---
layout: post.en
title: Groonga 3.1.2 has been released
description: Groonga 3.1.2 has been released!
---

h2. Groonga 3.1.2 has been released

"Groonga 3.1.2":/docs/news.html#release-3-1-2 has been released!

How to install: "Install":/docs/install.html

There are following topics in this release.

* Supported to customize lock timeout
* GRN_JA_SKIP_SAME_VALUE_PUT is enabled by default

h3. Supported to customize lock timeout

In this release, Groonga began to support customizing lock timeout.

In the previous versions, the value of lock timeout is defined as about 3 hours. You can't change the value without modifying source code.

Now you can customize this value as configure option (--with-lock-timeout) or CMake build flags (-DGRN_LOCK_TIMEOUT).

configure:

<pre>
$ ./configure --with-lock-timeout=(TIMEOUT)
</pre>

CMake:

<pre>
$ cmake -DGRN_LOCK_TIMEOUT=(TIMEOUT)
</pre>

See "Global configuration":http://groonga.org/docs/reference/api/global_configurations.html documentation about the value of lock timeout.

h3. GRN_JA_SKIP_SAME_VALUE_PUT is enabled by default

In the Groonga 3.1.0 release, GRN_JA_SKIP_SAME_VALUE_PUT environment variable is introduced experimentally.

This environment variable controls whether skipping to update the same value. As it was experimentally introduced at that time, it was not enabled by default, but now it is enabled by default at last!

If there are many queries with updating by the same value, it may suppress increasing the size of database by this change.

h3. Conclusion

See "Release 3.1.2 2014/01/29":/docs/news.html#release-3-1-2 about detailed changes since 3.1.1.

Let's search by Groonga!
