---
layout: post.en
title: Groonga 5.0.4 has been released
description: Groonga 5.0.4 has been released!
---

## Groonga 5.0.4 has been released

[Groonga 5.0.4](/docs/news.html#release-5-0-4) has been released!

How to install: [Install](/docs/install.html)

### Changes

In this release, there is following the topics:

* Fixed crash bug which is caused by double free
* Supported to search by 2 or less character even though TokenTrigram is used
* If you are using TokenRegexp, you need to re-create the index

### Fixed crash bug which is caused by double free

If Groonga database is accessed from multiple process or multiple threads, and
when these process or threads update or refer to indexes, Groonga suddenly
crashes by double free memory.

In this release, above bug is fixed.
Upgrade to this new release to avoid Groonga crash bug.

### Supported to search by 2 or less character even though TokenTrigram

In the previous versions, there is a well known case that you can search by one character
even though you use TokenBigram because Groonga specially supports it.

But there was the issue that you can not search token which is less than 3 characters
if TokenTrigram is used.

In this release, Groonga resolves above issue. You can search by token which is
2 or less character even though TokenTrigram is used.

### If you are using TokenRegexp, you need to re-create the index

Fixed a bug that it can't be searched correctly when query contains characters
which are treated as blank character. For example, the newline - "\n" is typical one.
If you are using TokenRegexp, you need to re-create the index.

### Conclusion

See [Release 5.0.4 2015-05-29](/docs/news.html#release-5-0-4) about detailed changes since 5.0.3.

Let's search by Groonga!
