---
layout: post.en
title: Groonga 5.0.3 has been released
description: Groonga 5.0.3 has been released!
published: false
---

## Groonga 5.0.3 has been released

[Groonga 5.0.3](/docs/news.html#release-5-0-3) has been released!

How to install: [Install](/docs/install.html)

### Changes

In this release, there is following the topics:

* Supported Debian 8.0 (Jessie) and Ubuntu 15.04 (Vivid Vervet)
* [dump] Improved output and supported output customization
* Increased max key size and supported to cache for long query
* [experimental] Supported log rotation

#### Supported Debian 8.0 (Jessie) and Ubuntu 15.04 (Vivid Vervet)

Supported Debian 8.0 (Jessie) and Ubuntu 15.04 (Vivid Vervet) that they are released in this month.

See the documents how to installation:

* [Debian 8.0](/docs/install/debian.html)
* [Ubuntu 15.04](/docs/install/ubuntu.html)

#### [dump] Improved output and supported output customization

The output of the dump command was improved, so the problem was solved that can't restore database from the dump.

And, it can specify output by options:

* `--dump_schema <yes (default) or no>`
* `--dump_records <yes (default) or no>`
* `--dump_indexes <yes (default) or no>`

Also, it was newly also supported dump of plugins. It also specifies output or not as follows:

* `--dump_plugins <yes (default) or no>`

#### Increased max key size and supported to cache for long query

The cache key is used to distinct for the processed query. In the previous versions, the query may not be cached because there is a limitation that too long query is not used as the cache key.  So far the query more than 4KiB (4,096Byte) is not cached because the max key size is 4KiB.

In this release, the query more than 4KiB is cached because the max key size is 64KiB - 1 (65,535Byte).

#### [experimental] Supported log rotation

Supported log rotation as an experimental feature.

This feature is disabled by default. You can specify threshold for log rotation. Log file is rotated when log file size is larger than or equals to the threshold by the following options:

* groonga.log
  * `--log-rotate-threshold-size <threshold>`
* query.log
  * `--query-log-rotate-threshold-size <threshold>`

### Conclusion

See [Release 5.0.3 2015-04-29](/docs/news.html#release-5-0-3) about detailed changes since 5.0.2.

Let's search by Groonga!
