---
layout: post.en
title: Groonga 5.1.0 has been released
description: Groonga 5.1.0 has been released!
---

## Groonga 5.1.0 has been released

[Groonga 5.1.0](/docs/news.html#release-5-1-0) has been released!

How to install: [Install](/docs/install.html)

e recommend you to upgrade to 5.0.9 when you match the following conditions:

  * You are a Groonga 5.0.3-5.0.8 user.
  * You use patricia trie (`TABLE_PAT_KEY`) for table.
  * You delete one or more records in table that uses patricia trie.

### Changes

Here are changes in this release:

  * Added [`reindex`](/docs/reference/commands/reindex.html) command which re-create indexes.
  * Improved performance of [groonga-httpd](/docs/reference/executables/groonga-httpd.html).
  * Added [`prefix_rk_search()`](/docs/reference/functions/prefix_rk_search.html) which provides [Prefix RK search](/docs/reference/operations/prefix_rk_search.html) functionality.
  * Added [Pretty print](/docs/reference/command/pretty_print.html) command.

#### `reindex` command

When Groonga crashes in lack of memory or disk full, there is a case that Groonga database also breaks. If broken parts are only limited to indexes, you can recover Groonga database by re-creating index again.

In the previous versions, you need to execute two operations - delete & create indexes with same parameters. In this release, [`reindex`](/docs/reference/commands/reindex.html) command does same operations at once.

There is a another tool to recover Groonga database - [`grndb`](/docs/reference/executables/grndb.html).
It provides a functionality to check broken database, a equivalent one to `reindex` command, and more.

#### Improved performance of groonga-httpd

[groonga-httpd](/docs/reference/executables/groonga-httpd.html) is a Groonga HTTP server which is based on nginx.
[groonga executable](/docs/reference/executables/groonga.html) is also provides builtin HTTP server functionality, but it provides very limited features.

See [HTTP server comparison](/docs/server/http.html) about difference of groonga executable and groonga-httpd.

In this release, internal process of groonga-httpd is optimized, as a result, performance is improved.

Try this one, if you are not satisfied with previous version of groonga-httpd.

#### Added `prefix_rk_search()` function

Groonga provides specific functionality for Japanese.
[Prefix RK search](/docs/reference/operations/prefix_rk_search.html) is one of them. (RK means Romaji and Katakana)

This feature is used to [suggest](/docs/reference/suggest.html) proper [completion](/docs/reference/suggest/completion.html).

In this release, [`prefix_rk_search()`](/docs/reference/functions/prefix_rk_search.html) function is added, and you can use this function in [`select`](/docs/reference/commands/select.html) command.

#### Support pretty print of JSON

Groonga returns search result as JSON format by default. It is not human readable as you can see.

```text
> status
[[0,1448344438.43783,5.29289245605469e-05],{"alloc_count":233,"starttime":1448344437,...}]
```

It is convenient for machine, but not for human.
In this release, if you specify `--output_pretty yes`, Groonga supports [Pretty Print](/docs/reference/command/pretty_print.html).

Here is the example about this feature.

```text
> status --output_pretty yes
[
  [
    0,
    1448344438.43783,
    5.29289245605469e-05
  ],
  {
    "alloc_count": 233,
    "starttime": 1448344437,
    "start_time": 1448344437,
    "uptime": 1,
    "version": "5.0.9-135-g0763d91",
    "n_queries": 0,
    "cache_hit_rate": 0.0,
    "command_version": 1,
    "default_command_version": 1,
    "max_command_version": 2
  }
]
```

### Conclusion

See [Release 5.1.0 2015-11-29](/docs/news.html#release-5-1-0) about detailed changes since 5.0.9.

Let's search by Groonga!
