---
layout: post.en
title: Groonga 6.0.7 has been released!
description: Groonga 6.0.7 has been released!
---

## Groonga 6.0.7 has been released!

[Groonga 6.0.7](/docs/news.html#release-6-0-7) has been released!

How to install in each environment: [Install](/docs/install.html)

### Changes

Here are important changes in this release:

  * Changed output dump order about table by name instead of ID
  * Added object_list command for debugging
  * Dropped support for Ubuntu 15.10 (Wily Werewolf)

In this release, it breaks dump output compatibility but it can be restored as usual.

#### Changed output dump order about table by name instead of ID

In this release, incompatible change is introduced to `dump` command.

In the previous versions, `dump` command depends output order by id. But if you changed database schema frequently, it affects to ID of object.
There is a case that output content which is generated by `dump` command is different from another database even though database schema and data are actually same.

It is inconvenient when checking difference of dump data, so this behavior is changed to output by name instead of ID.

#### Added object_list command for debugging

In this release, `object_list` command is supported.

`object_list` command outputs object information in a database. "object" means that meta information in database.
There is a similar command - [schema](/docs/reference/commands/schema.html), but `schema` command is different from `object_list` in some points.

`object_list` command doesn't open object actually, so it is a lightweight command because it doesn't consume a lot of resources.

As `schema` command is good enough for usual case, use `object_list` for trouble-shooting.

#### Dropped support for Ubuntu 15.10 (Wily Werewolf)

In this release, Ubuntu 15.10 support is dropped. It reached EOL on July 28, 2016.

* [Ubuntu 15.10 (Wily Werewolf) reaches End of Life on July 28 2016](http://fridge.ubuntu.com/2016/07/07/ubuntu-15-10-wily-werewolf-reaches-end-of-life-on-july-28-2016/)

We recommends to migrate to Ubuntu 16.04 because Groonga 6.0.7 package for 16.04 is provided as PPA.

### Conclusions

Please refer to [Release 6.0.7 - 2016-07-29](/docs/news.html#release-6-0-7) about detailed changes since 6.0.5.

Then, let's go all out to search by Groonga!
