---
layout: post.en
title: Groonga 8.0.2 has been released
description: Groonga 8.0.2 has been released!
---

## Groonga 8.0.2 has been released

[Groonga 8.0.2](/docs/news.html#release-8.0.2) has been released!

In this release, you can "define" custom tokenizer and normalizer via options, without any programming. It helps you to search sources including many orthographical variants.

How to install: [Install](/docs/install.html)

### Changes

Here are important changes in this release:

  * [[logical_range_filter](/docs/reference/commands/logical_range_filter.html)] Added `sort_keys` option.
  * Added a new function `time_format()`. You can specify time format against a column of `Time` type, with the format same to `strftime`.
  * [[tokenizers](/docs/reference/tokenizers.html)] Support new tokenizer `TokenNgram`. You can define its behavior dynamically.
  * [[normalizers](/docs/reference/normalizers.html)] Support new normalizer `NormalizerNFKC100`. It is based on Unicode NFKC for Unicode 10.0.
  * [[normalizers](/docs/reference/normalizers.html)] Support options for normalizers `NormalizerNFKC51` and `NormalizerNFKC100`. You can change normalizer's behavior dynamically.
  * [[dump](/docs/reference/commands/dump.html)][[schema](/docs/reference/commands/schema.html)] Add support for options of tokenizer and normalizer. As the result, Groonga 8.0.1 and earlier versions cannot import dump and schema generated by Groonga 8.0.2 or later, and they will occurs error due to unsupported information.


### [[logical_range_filter](/docs/reference/commands/logical_range_filter.html)] Added `sort_keys` option

`logical_range_filter` now supports a new option `sort_keys`, corresponding to [`sort_keys` in select](/docs/reference/commands/select.html#select-sort-keys).

Note that it works only for single search target shard and doesn't work for multiple search target shards.
For more details, see the [command reference](/docs/reference/commands/logical_range_filter.html#sort-keys).

### Added a new function `time_format()`

Now you can specify time format against a column of `Time` type, with the format same to `strftime`.

For example, the following command line will output the `_key` column as both UNIX time and a human readable format like `2018-04-29T10:30:00`:

```
select Timestamps --sortby _id --limit -1 --output_columns '_key, time_format(_key, "%Y-%m-%dT%H:%M:%S")'
```

### [[tokenizers](/docs/reference/tokenizers.html)] Support new tokenizer `TokenNgram`

Now a new tokenizer `TokenNgram` is available.
You can define its behavior dynamically via its options.
Options are given via the style `'TokenNgram("[name 1]", [value 1], "[name 2]", [value 2], ...)`.
For example:

```
table_create --name Terms --flags TABLE_PAT_KEY --key_type ShortText --default_tokenizer 'TokenNgram("n", 2, "loose_symbol", true)' --normalizer NormalizerAuto
```

### [[normalizers](/docs/reference/normalizers.html)] Support new normalizer `NormalizerNFKC100`

Now a new normalizer `NormalizerNFKC100`, based on Unicode NFKC (Normalization Form Compatibility Composition) for Unicode 10.0 is available.

Both it and `NormalizerNFKC51` supports options.
For more details, see the next section.

### [[normalizers](/docs/reference/normalizers.html)] Support options for normalizers `NormalizerNFKC51` and `NormalizerNFKC100`

Both normalizers `NormalizerNFKC51` and `NormalizerNFKC100` now support options to change their behavior dyanmically.
Options are given via the style `'NormalizerNFKC100("[name 1]", [value 1], "[name 2]", [value 2], ...)`.
For example:

```
table_create --name Terms --flags TABLE_PAT_KEY --key_type ShortText --default_tokenizer TokenBigram --normalizer 'NormalizerNFKC100("unify_kana", true, "unify_kana_case", true)'
```

### [[dump](/docs/reference/commands/dump.html)][[schema](/docs/reference/commands/schema.html)] Add support for options of tokenizer and normalizer

`dump` and `schema` commands now report options for tokenizers (`TokenNgram`) and normalizers (`NormalizerNFKC51` and `NormalizerNFKC100`.), like:

```
table_create Site TABLE_HASH_KEY ShortText
column_create Site title COLUMN_SCALAR ShortText

table_create Terms TABLE_PAT_KEY ShortText --default_tokenizer TokenBigram --normalizer "NormalizerNFKC100(\"unify_kana\", true, \"unify_kana_case\", true)"
```

As the result, Groonga 8.0.1 and earlier versions cannot import results of `dump` and `schema` including such options information.

Tokenizers and normalizers without options are still reported same as on the old versions, so you need to be careful only when you use new features of tokenizers or normalizers described above.

### Conclusion

See [Release 8.0.2 2018-04-29](/docs/news.html#release-8.0.2) about detailed changes since 8.0.1

Let's search by Groonga!
