---
layout: post.en
title: Groonga 8.0.8 has been released
description: Groonga 8.0.8 has been released!
published: false
---

## Groonga 8.0.8 has been released

[Groonga 8.0.8](/docs/news.html#release-8-0-8) has been released!

How to install: [Install](/docs/install.html)

### Changes

Here are important changes in this release:

* New options for the [TokenMecab](/docs/reference/tokenizers#tokenmecab) tokenizer.
* Supported locking of a database during a [io_flush](/docs/reference/commands/io_flush).

#### New options for the [TokenMecab](/docs/reference/tokenizers#tokenmecab) tokenizer

[TokenMecab](/docs/reference/tokenizers#tokenmecab) now accepts `target_class` option:

`target_class` option searches a token of specifying a part-of-speech.
This option can also specify subclasses and exclude or add specific part-of-speech of specific using `+` or `-`.

 * `+` adds part-of-speech of a search target.
   * If you specify only `+` or ``, search taget are all tokens.
 * `-` excludes part-of-speech from a search target.


For example, you can search all tokens exclude a pronoun as below.

`'TokenMecab("target_class", "-名詞/代名詞", "target_class", "+")'`

#### Supported locking of a database during a [io_flush](/docs/reference/commands/io_flush)

The feature added to fix a bug that the Groonga is a crash when deleted a table of a target of a [io_flush](/docs/reference/commands/io_flush) during execution of a [io_flush](/docs/reference/commands/io_flush).
[io_flush](/docs/reference/commands/io_flush) locks Groonga database while flushing. So, you can’t run the following commands while [io_flush](/docs/reference/commands/io_flush)

 * column_create
 * column_remove
 * column_rename
 * logical_table_remove
 * object_remove
 * plugin_register
 * plugin_unregister
 * table_create
 * table_remove
 * table_rename

### Conclusion

See [Release 8.0.8 2018-10-29](/docs/news.html#release-8-0-8) about detailed changes since 8.0.7

Let's search by Groonga!
