---
layout: post.en
title: Groonga 9.0.6 has been released
description: Groonga 9.0.6 has been released!
---

## Groonga 9.0.6 has been released

[Groonga 9.0.6](/docs/news.html#release-9-0-6) has been released!

How to install: [Install](/docs/install.html)

### IMPORTANT NOTICE

This release contains fixes for some critical bugs which affect search result.

### Changes

Here are important changes in this release:

* Fixed a bug that a search error occurs when search escalation is executed.

* Fixed a bug that ``slices`` returns the records which should not be matched when we use nested equal condition.

* Added support for Debian 10 (buster)


### Fixed a bug that an search error occurs when search escalation is executed

In this release, the search escalation related bug was fixed. This bug causes error and it didn't return matched records.

This bug is caused when the following conditions are met:

* The lexcon table is TABLE_HASH_KEY
* Use @ operator
* Search escalation is occurred

### Fixed a bug that ``slices`` returns the records which should not be matched when we use nested equal condition

In this release, ``slices`` parameter related bug was fixed. This bug may return the records which should not be matched.
This bug is caused when the following conditions is met:

* Use ``select`` command with ``slices`` parameter.

### Added support for Debian 10 (buster)

In this release, Debian 10 (buster - Released at July 6, 2019) has been supported.
Now, you can install Groonga in similar way on Debian 9 (stretch).

### Conclusion

See [Release 9.0.6 2019-08-05](/docs/news.html#release-9-0-6) about detailed changes since 9.0.5

Let's search by Groonga!
