---
layout: post.en
title: Groonga 9.0.9 has been released
description: Groonga 9.0.9 has been released!
---

## Groonga 9.0.9 has been released

[Groonga 9.0.9](/docs/news.html#release-9-0-9) has been released!

How to install: [Install](/docs/install.html)

### Notice

Maybe performance decreases from this version.
Therefore, If performance decreases than before, please report us with reproducible steps.

### Changes

Here are important changes in this release:

* [log](/docs/reference/log.html) Improved that output the sending time of response into query-log.

* [status](/docs/reference/commands/status.html) Added that the number of current jobs in the ``status`` command response.

* [groonga-httpd](/docs/reference/executables/groonga-httpd.html) Added support for ``$request_time`` in log.

  * In the previous version, even if we specified the ``$request_time`` in the ``log_format`` directive, it was always 0.00.
  * If we specify the ``$request_time``, groonga-httpd output the correct time form this version.

* [groonga-httpd](/docs/reference/executables/groonga-httpd.html) Added how to set the ``$request_time`` in the document.

* Supported Ubuntu 19.10 (Eoan Ermine)

* Supported CentOS 8 (experimental)

  * The package for CentOS 8 can't use a part of features(e.g. we can't use ``TokenMecab`` and can't cast to int32 vector from JSON string) for lacking some packages for development.

* [tools] Added a script for executeing the ``index_column_diff`` command simply.

  * This script name is index-column-diff-all.sh.
  * This script extracts index columns form Groonga's database and execute the ``index_column_diff`` command to them.

* [tools] Added a script for executing ``object_inspect`` against all objects.

  * This script name is object-inspect-all.sh.

* Fixed a bug that Groonga crash when we specify the value as the first argument of between.

### Fixed a bug that Groonga crash when we specify the value as the first argument of between.

Groonga had been crashed as below case.

```
table_create Users TABLE_HASH_KEY ShortText
# [[0, 1337566253.89858, 0.000355720520019531], true]
column_create Users age COLUMN_SCALAR Int32
# [[0, 1337566253.89858, 0.000355720520019531], true]
table_create Ages TABLE_HASH_KEY Int32
# [[0, 1337566253.89858, 0.000355720520019531], true]
column_create Ages user_age COLUMN_INDEX Users age
# [[0, 1337566253.89858, 0.000355720520019531], true]
load --table Users
[
{"_key": "Alice",  "age": 12},
{"_key": "Bob",    "age": 13},
{"_key": "Calros", "age": 15},
{"_key": "Dave",   "age": 16},
{"_key": "Eric",   "age": 20},
{"_key": "Frank",  "age": 21}
]
# [[0, 1337566253.89858, 0.000355720520019531], 6]

select Users --filter 'between(14, 13, "include", 16, "include")'
```

### Conclusion

See [Release 9.0.9 2019-10-30](/docs/news.html#release-9-0-9) about detailed changes since 9.0.8

Let's search by Groonga!
