---
layout: post.en
title: Groonga 9.0.5 has been released
description: Groonga 9.0.5 has been released!
published: false
---

## Groonga 9.0.5 has been released

[Groonga 9.0.5](/docs/news.html#release-9-0-5) has been released!

How to install: [Install](/docs/install.html)

### Changes

Here are important changes in this release:

* [logical_range_filter](/docs/reference/commands/logical_range_filter.html) Improved that only apply an optimization when the search target shard is large enough.

* [normalizers](/docs/reference/normalizers.html) Added new option ``unify_to_katakana`` for ``NormalizerNFKC100``.

* [select](/docs/reference/commands/select.html) Added drilldowns support as a slices parameter.

* [select](/docs/reference/commands/select.html) Added columns support as a slices parameter.

* [select](/docs/reference/commands/select.html) Improved that we can reference ``_score`` in the initial stage for slices parameter.

* [highlight_html](/docs/reference/functions/highlight_html.html), [snippet_html](/docs/reference/functions/snippet_html.html) Improved that extract a keyword also from an expression of before executing a slices when we specify the slices parameter.

* Improved that collect scores also from an expression of before executing a slices when we specify the slices parameter.

* Stopped add 1 in score automatically when add posting to posting list.

* Added support for index search for nested equal like ``XXX.YYY.ZZZ == AAA``.

* Reduce rehash interval when we use hash table.

* Improved to we can add tag prefix in the query log.

* Added support for Apache Arrow 1.0.0.

* Added support for Amazon Linux 2.

* Fixed a bug that vector values of JSON like ``"[1, 2, 3]"`` are not indexed.

* Fixed wrong parameter name in ``table_create`` tests.

* Fixed a bug that drilldown label is empty when a drilldown command is executed by ``command_version=3``.

* Fixed build error for Windows package on MinGW.

* Fixed install missing COPYING for Windows package on MinGW.

* Fixed a bug that don't highlight when specifing non-test query as highlight target keyword.

* Fixed a bug that broken output of MessagePack format of [object_inspect](/docs/reference/commands/object_inspect).

* Fixed a bug that broken output of MessagePack format of ``index_column_diff``.

* Fixed a bug that broken output of MessagePack format of [suggest](/docs/reference/commands/suggest.html).

* Fixed a bug that allocate size by realloc isn't enough when a search for a table of patricia trie and so on.

* Fix a bug that ``groonga.repo`` is removed when updating 1.5.0 from ``groonga-release`` version before 1.5.0-1.

### [logical_range_filter](/docs/reference/commands/logical_range_filter.html) Improved that only apply an optimization when the search target shard is large enough.

This feature reduces that duplicate search result between offset when we use same sort key.
Large enough threshold is 10000 records by default.

### [normalizers](/docs/reference/normalizers.html) Added new option ``unify_to_katakana`` for ``NormalizerNFKC100``

This option normalize hiragana to katakana.
For example, `` ぁ ぃ  ぇ ぉ` is normalized to ``ヴァヴィヴヴェヴォ``.

We can identify below terms by ``unify_to_katakana`` and ``unify_katakana_v_sounds``.

* ゔぁゔぃゔゔぇゔぉ
* ばびぶべぼ
* ヴァヴィヴヴェヴォ
* バビブベボ

* First, we apply ``unify_to_katakana``.

  * ゔぁゔぃゔゔぇゔぉ -> ヴァヴィヴヴェヴォ
  * ばびぶべぼ -> バビブベボ
  * ヴァヴィヴヴェヴォ -> ヴァヴィヴヴェヴォ
  * バビブベボ -> バビブベボ

* Second, we apply unify_katakana_v_sounds.

  * ヴァヴィヴヴェヴォ -> バビブベボ
  * バビブベボ -> バビブベボ

### Conclusion

See [Release 9.0.5 2019-07-30](/docs/news.html#release-9-0-5) about detailed changes since 9.0.4

Let's search by Groonga!
