---
layout: post.en
title: Groonga 10.0.0 has been released
description: Groonga 10.0.0 has been released!
published: false
---

## Groonga 10.0.0 has been released

[Groonga 10.0.0](/docs/news.html#release-10.0.0) has been released!

How to install: [Install](/docs/install.html)

### Changes

Here are important changes in this release:

* [httpd] Updated bundled nginx to 1.17.9.

* [httpd] Added support for specifying output type as an extension.

  * For example, we can write `load.json` instead of `load?output_type=json`.

* [log](/docs/reference/log.html) Outputted a path of opened or closed file into a log of dump level on Linux.

  * As the fllowing log is outputted.

    ```
    [io][open] file_path
    [io][close] file_path
    ```

* [log](/docs/reference/log.html) Outputted a path of closed file into a log of debug level on Windows.  

  * As the fllowing log is outputted.

    ```
    [io][open] file_path
    [io][close] file_path
    ```

* Added following API and macros

  * `grn_timeval_from_double(grn_ctx, double)`

    * This API converts `double` type to `grn_timeval` type.
    * It returns value of `grn_timeval` type.

  * `GRN_TIMEVAL_TO_NSEC(timeval)`

    * This macro converts value of `grn_timeval` type to nanosecond as the value of `uint64_t` type.

  * `GRN_TIME_USEC_TO_SEC(usec)`

    * This macro converts microsecond to second.

* Deprecated the following macro.

  * `GRN_OBJ_FORMAT_FIN(grn_ctx, grn_obj_format)`

    * We `grn_obj_format_fin(grn_ctx, grn_obj_format)` use instead since 10.0.0.

* [logical_range_filter](/docs/reference/commands/logical_range_filter.html), [dump](/docs/reference/commands/dump.html) Added support for stream output.

  * This feature requires `command_version 3` or later. The header content is outputted after the body content.
  * Currently, this feature support only `dump` and `logical_range_filter`.
  * `logical_range_filter` always returns the output as a stream on `command_version 3` or later.
  * This feature has the following limitations.

    * -1 is only allowed for negative `limit`
    * MessagePack output isn't supported

  * We a little changed the response contents of JSON by this modify.

    * The key order differs from before versions as below.

      * The key order in before versions.

        ```json
        {
          "header": {...},
          "body": {...}
        }
        ```

      * The key order in this version(10.0.0).

        ```json
        {
          "body": {...},
          "header": {...}
        }
        ```

  * Disabled caches of `dump` and `logical_range_filter` when they execute on `command_version 3`.

    * Because of `dump` and `logical_range_filter` on `command_version 3` returns stream since 10.0.0, Groonga can not cache the whole response.

* [logical_range_filter](/docs/reference/commands/logical_range_filter.html) Added support for outputting response as Apache Arrow format.

  * Supported data type as below.

    * `UInt8`
    * `Int8`
    * `UInt16`
    * `Int16`
    * `UInt32`
    * `Int32`
    * `UInt64`
    * `Int64`
    * `Time`
    * `ShortText`
    * `Text`
    * `LongText`
    * `Vector` of `Int32`
    * `Reference vector`

* Supported Ubuntu 20.04 (Focal Fossa).

* Dropped Ubuntu 19.04 (Disco Dingo).

  * Because this version has been EOL.

### Conclusion

See [Release 10.0.0 2020-03-29](/docs/news.html#release-10.0.0) about detailed changes since 9.1.2

Let's search by Groonga!
