---
layout: post.en
title: Groonga 10.0.9 has been released
description: Groonga 10.0.9 has been released!
---

## Groonga 10.0.9 has been released

[Groonga 10.0.9](/docs/news.html#release-10-0-9) has been released!

How to install: [Install](/docs/install.html)

### Changes

Here are important changes in this release:

* [select](/docs/reference/commands/select.html) Improved performance when we specified `-1` to `limit`.

* [reference_acquire](/docs/reference/commands/reference_acquire.html) Added a new option `--auto_release_count`.

* Modify behavior when Groonga evaluated empty `vector` and `uvector`.

  * Empty vector and uvector are evaluated to false in command version 3.

* [Normalizers](/docs/reference/normalizers.html) Added a new Normalizer `NormalizerNFKC130` based on Unicode NFKC (Normalization Form Compatibility Composition) for Unicode 13.0.

* [Token filters](/docs/reference/token_filters.html) Added a new TokenFilter `TokenFilterNFKC130` based on Unicode NFKC (Normalization Form Compatibility Composition) for Unicode 13.0.

* [select](/docs/reference/commands/select.html) Improved performance for `"_score = column - X"`.

* [reference_acquire](/docs/reference/commands/reference_acquire.html) Improved that `--reference_acquire` doesn't get unnecessary reference of index column when we specify the `--recursive dependent` option.

* [select](/docs/reference/commands/select.html) Add support for ordered near phrase search.

  * Until now, the near phrase search have only looked for records that the distance of between specified phrases near.
  * This feature look for satisfy the following conditions records.

    * If the distance of between specified phrases is near.
    * If the specified phrases are in line with specified order.

* [httpd] Updated bundled nginx to 1.19.5.

* [Groonga HTTP server](/docs/reference/executables/groonga-server-http.html) Fixed that Groonga HTTP server finished without waiting all woker threads finished completely.

### Conclusion

Please refert to the following news for more details.

[News Release 10.0.9](/docs/news.html#release-10-0-9)

Let's search by Groonga!
