---
layout: post.en
title: PGroonga (fast full text search module for PostgreSQL) 2.2.5 has been released
description: PGroonga (fast full text search module for PostgreSQL) 2.2.5 has been released!
---

## PGroonga (fast full text search module for PostgreSQL) 2.2.5 has been released

[PGroonga](https://pgroonga.github.io/) 2.2.5 has been released! PGroonga makes PostgreSQL fast full text search for all languages.

If you are new user, see also [About PGroonga]({% post_url /2017-10-10-pgroonga-2.0.2 %}#pgroonga).

## Note

PGroonga 2.2.3 and 2.2.4 have below problems. Therefore please don't use them.

* PGroonga 2.2.3

  * This version fails to install packages for Debian and Ubuntu.
    Because these packages fail to resolve the dependency.

* PGroonga 2.2.4

  * This version fails to upgrade using ``ALTER EXTENSION pgroonga UPDATE;``.

## Highlight

Here are highlights after PGroonga 2.2.2:

  * Added support for ``CREATE TABLE``, ``CREATE INDEX``, and ``TRUNCATE`` in the same transaction.

  * Regulated the number of estimated search cost of PGroonga's index for easy to select it when searched records.

    * In particular, PostgreSQL choice PGroonga's index when the record includes many same tokens.

  * Fixed a bug that we failed to upgrade to PGroonga 2.2.4.

  * Fixed a bug that execution of the query that had not conditional expression failed if the table had only jsonb index of PGroonga.

  * Fixed a bug that the sequential scan occurred error when we used Groonga library ( ``libgroonga`` ) version 10.0.0 or later.

### Added support for ``CREATE TABLE``, ``CREATE INDEX``, and ``TRUNCATE`` in the same transaction.

By until before versions, ``TRUNCATE`` failed when we make the index of PGroonga and execute ``TRUNCATE`` in the same transaction.

For example, ``TRUNCATE`` failed if below case.

```sql
BEGIN TRANSACTION;
CREATE EXTENSION IF NOT EXISTS pgroonga;
CREATE TABLE test (
    id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
    content text
);
CREATE INDEX test_id ON test USING pgroonga (content);
TRUNCATE TABLE test CASCADE;
COMMIT;
```

### Fixed a bug that execution of the query that had not conditional expression failed if the table had only jsonb index of PGroonga.

For example, ``SELECT COUNT(*)`` failed if below case.

```sql
CREATE TABLE logs (
  record jsonb
);
CREATE INDEX pgroonga_index ON logs
  USING pgroonga (record pgroonga_jsonb_ops_v2);
INSERT INTO logs VALUES ('{}');
SET enable_seqscan = off;
SELECT count(*) FROM logs;
```

### Fixed a bug that the sequential scan occurred error when we used Groonga library ( ``libgroonga`` ) version 10.0.0 or later.

This problem didn't occur if we installed a package for PGroonga. Only when it occurred if we installed PGroonga and Groonga that built from source.

For example, ``SELECT`` failed if below case.

```sql
CREATE TABLE memos (
  content varchar(256)
);

INSERT INTO memos VALUES ('Green apple');
INSERT INTO memos VALUES ('Apple');

CREATE INDEX pgrn_index ON memos
 USING pgroonga (content pgroonga_varchar_full_text_search_ops_v2);

SET enable_seqscan = on;
SET enable_indexscan = off;
SET enable_bitmapscan = off;

SELECT content, pgroonga_score(tableoid, ctid)
  FROM memos
 WHERE content &@~ 'Apple';
```

We can confirm version of  ``libgroonga``  by below query.

```sql
SHOW pgroonga.libgroonga_version;

 pgroonga.libgroonga_version 
-----------------------------
 10.0.0
(1 row)
```

## How to upgrade

This version is compatible with before versions. You can upgrade by steps in "Compatible case" in [Upgrade document](https://pgroonga.github.io/upgrade/#compatible-case).

## Conclusion

Try PGroonga when you want to perform fast full text search against all languages on PostgreSQL!
