---
layout: post.en
title: PGroonga (fast full text search module for PostgreSQL) 2.3.4 has been released
description: PGroonga (fast full text search module for PostgreSQL) 2.3.4 has been released!
---

## PGroonga (fast full text search module for PostgreSQL) 2.3.4 has been released

[PGroonga](https://pgroonga.github.io/) 2.3.4 has been released! PGroonga makes PostgreSQL fast full text search for all languages.

If you are new user, see also [About PGroonga]({% post_url en/2017-10-10-pgroonga-2.0.2 %}#about-pgroonga).

We implemented big features in PGroonga 2.3.3. Therefore, we also announce features of PGroonga 2.3.3 in this blog.

## Highlight

Here are highlights in PGroonga 2.3.3 and 2.3.4:

  * Added support for PostgreSQL's RLS(Row Level security)

    PostgreSQL had not selected PGroonga's index in the table with RLS until now.
    However, PostgreSQL is able to select PGroonga's index in the table with RLS enabled since this release.

  * Dropped support for PostgreSQL 9.6.

    Because PostgreSQL 9.6 reached EOL at 2021/11/11.

  * Added support for applying PGroonga's WAL automatically in the standby server when we use stream replication.

    PGroonga's WAL wasn't deleted unless we apply WAL manually in the standby server until now.
    However, we support the feature that apply automatically WAL in the standby server since this release.

    This feature doesn't enable in the default. We need to enable this feature to use it.
    Please refer to the following link about how to use this feature.

    * [pgroonga-wal-applier](https://pgroonga.github.io/reference/modules/pgroonga-wal-applier.html)

  * Added support for AlmaLinux 8.

  * Fix a crash bug when EXPLAIN ANALYZE is executed with seqscan.

    This bug only occures in PGroonga 2.3.3.

  * Added support for crash safe. (Experimental feature)

    If we enable this feature, PGroonga recovers automatically its index when PostgreSQL crashes.
    We don't execute REINDEX manually when PostgreSQL crashes.
    This feature doesn't enable in the default. We need to enable this feature to use it.
    Please refer to the following link about how to use this feature.

    * [Crash safe](https://pgroonga.github.io/reference/crash-safe.html)

## How to upgrade

This version is compatible with before versions. You can upgrade by steps in "Compatible case" in [Upgrade document](https://pgroonga.github.io/upgrade/#compatible-case).

## Conclusion

Try PGroonga when you want to perform fast full text search against all languages on PostgreSQL!
