---
layout: post.en
title: Groonga 11.0.0 has been released
description: Groonga 11.0.0 has been released!
---

## Groonga 11.0.0 has been released

[Groonga 11.0.0](/docs/news.html#release-11-0-0) has been released!

How to install: [Install](/docs/install.html)

### Changes

Here are important changes in this release:

* [select](/docs/reference/commands/select.html) Added support for outputting values of scalar column and vector column via nested index.

  * The nested index is that has structure as below.

    ```
    table_create Products TABLE_PAT_KEY ShortText

    table_create Purchases TABLE_NO_KEY
    column_create Purchases product COLUMN_SCALAR Products
    column_create Purchases tag COLUMN_SCALAR ShortText

    column_create Products purchases COLUMN_INDEX Purchases product
    ```

  * The `Products.purchases` column is a index of `Purchases.product` column in the above example.
    Also, `Purchases.product` is a reference to `Products` table.

* [Windows] Dropped support for packages of Windows version that we had cross compiled by using MinGW on Linux.

  * From now on, we use the following packages for Windows.

    * `groonga-latest-x86-vs2019-with-vcruntime.zip`
    * `groonga-latest-x64-vs2019-with-vcruntime.zip`

  * If a system already has installed Microsoft Visual C++ Runtime Library, we suggest that we use the following packages.

    * `groonga-latest-x86-vs2019.zip`
    * `groonga-latest-x64-vs2019.zip`

* Fixed a bug that there is possible that index is corrupt when Groonga executes many additions, delete, and update information in it.

  * This bug occurs when we only execute many delete information from index.
    However, it doesn't occur when we only execute many additions information into index.

  * We can repair the index that is corrupt by this bug using reconstruction of it.

  * This bug doesn't detect unless we reference the broken index.
    Therefore, the index in our indexes may has already broken.

  * We can use [index_column_diff](/docs/reference/commands/index_column_diff.html) command to confirm whether the index has already been broken or not.

### Conclusion

Please refert to the following news for more details.

[News Release 11.0.0](/docs/news.html#release-11-0-0)

Let's search by Groonga!
