---
layout: post.en
title: Groonga 11.0.3 has been released
description: Groonga 11.0.3 has been released!
---

## Groonga 11.0.3 has been released

[Groonga 11.0.3](/docs/news.html#release-11-0-3) has been released!

How to install: [Install](/docs/install.html)

### Changes

Here are important changes in this release:

### Improvements

* [query](/docs/reference/functions/query.html) Added support for ignoring ``TokenFilterStem`` by the query.

* [query](/docs/reference/functions/query.html) Added support for ignoring ``TokenFilterStopWord`` by the query.

* [NormalizerNFKC](/docs/reference/normalizers.html) Added a new option ``remove_new_line``.

* [string_slice()](/docs/reference/functions/string_slice.html) Added a new function ``string_slice()``.

  * ``string_slice()`` extracts a substring of a string.

* [Ubuntu](/docs/install/ubuntu.html) Dropped support for Ubuntu 16.04 LTS (Xenial Xerus).

* Added EditorConfig for Visual Studio.

  * Most settings are for Visual Studio only.

* [httpd] Updated bundled nginx to 1.20.1.

  * Contains security fix of CVE-2021-23017.

### Fixes

* Fixed a bug that Groonga may not have returned a result of a search query if we sent many search queries when tokenizer, normalizer, or token_filters that support options were used.

### Known Issues

* Currently, Groonga has a bug that there is possible that data is corrupt when we execute many additions, delete, and update data to vector column.

* [The browser based administration tool] Currently, Groonga has a bug that a search query that is inputted to non-administration mode is sent even if we input checks to the checkbox for the administration mode of a record list.

### Conclusion

Please refert to the following news for more details.

[News Release 11.0.3](/docs/news.html#release-11-0-3)

Let's search by Groonga!
