---
layout: post.en
title: Rroonga 12.0.8 has been released
description: Rroonga 12.0.8 has been released!
---

## Rroonga 12.0.8 has been released

Rroonga 12.0.8 has been released.

[Web site](http://ranguba.org/#about-rroonga)

Rroonga is the Ruby bindings for Groonga that is a fast flexible fulltext search engine and column store.

[About Groonga](http://groonga.org/)

## Highlight

Here are changes since 12.0.8:

* Added support for creating a `Groonga::PatriciaTrie` without database

  Normally, we can create a patriciatrie table as below.

  ```ruby
    Groonga::PatriciaTrie.create(:key_type => "ShortText")
  ```

  `Groonga::PatriciaTrie.create()` also create Groonga's database internally in the avobe way.

  We can create a patriciatrie table without Groonga's database since this release.
  Therefore, we can reduce create time for the patriciatrie table.

  A patriciatrie table does not only search but also execute string operations like `Groonga::PatriciaTrie#scan`.
  However, if we want to only execute string operations, a creation Groonga's database takes time and effort.

  We can create a patriciatrie table without Groonga's database as below.

  ```ruby
    Groonga::PatriciaTrie.create(context: context,
                                 key_size: 4096,
                                 key_variable_size: true)
  ```

  Note:
  We need to specify `:key_size` if your context isn't associated with a database.
  You may want to specify `:key_variable_size` and `:value_size` too.

  We can't use normalizer, tokenizer and token filters without database.
  Auto patricia trie close on context close doesn't work without database.
  We must close the created patricia trie explicitly.

We dropped support to the package for Windows include built Groonga and Rroonga from 10.0.1.
However, how to install doesn't change.

About the merit of dropping support of fat gem, please refer to the following document.
https://www.clear-code.com/blog/2020/9/3.html

Rroonga will become to installs Groonga package for the MSYS2 automatically
when installs since this version.

## Install

You can install Rroonga by just "gem install".
(If you don't have Groonga, Rroonga installs it automatically.)

```
  gem install rroonga
```

## Tutorial

We recommend that you play tutorial after you install Rroonga.
It helps you to understand how to use Rroonga.

[Tutorial](http://ranguba.org/rroonga/en/file.tutorial.html)
