---
layout: post.en
title: Groonga 12.0.4 has been released
description: Groonga 12.0.4 has been released!
---

## Groonga 12.0.4 has been released

[Groonga 12.0.4](/docs/news.html#release-12-0-4) has been released!

How to install: [Install](/docs/install.html)

### Changes

Here are important changes in this release:

### Improvements

* [Ubuntu](/docs/install/ubuntu.html) Added support for Ubuntu 22.04 (Jammy Jellyfish).

* We don't provide `groonga-benchmark`.

  Because nobody will not use it and we can't maintain it.

* [status](/docs/reference/commands/status.html) Added a new item ``memory_map_size``.

  We can get the total memory map size in bytes of Groonga with ``status`` command.

  ```
  status
  [
    [
      0,
      1654237168.304533,
      0.0001480579376220703
    ],
    {
      (omitted)
      "memory_map_size": 70098944
    }
  ]
  ```

  For example, in Windows, if Groonga uses up physical memory and swap area, Groonga can't more mapping memory than that.
  Therefore, we can control properly memory map size by monitoring this value even if the environment does have not enough memory.

### Fixes

* Fixed a bug Groonga's response may be slow when we execute ``request_cancel`` while executing a search.

  Especially, when the number of records of the search target is many, Groonga's response may be very slow.

* Fixed a bug that string list can't be casted to int32 vector.

  For example, the following cast had failed.

  * ["10", "100"] -> [10, 100]

  This bug only occurs when we specify ``apache-arrow`` into ``input_type`` as the argument of ``load``.
  This bug occurs in Groonga 12.0.2 or later.

* Fixed a bug that Groonga Munin Plugins do not work on AlmaLinux 8 and CentOS 7.

### Known Issues

* Currently, Groonga has a bug that there is possible that data is corrupt when we execute many additions, delete, and update data to vector column.

* ``*<`` and ``*>`` only valid when we use ``query()`` the right side of filter condition.
  If we specify as below, ``*<`` and ``*>`` work as ``&&``.

    * ``'content @ "Groonga" *< content @ "Mroonga"'``

* Groonga may not return records that should match caused by ``GRN_II_CURSOR_SET_MIN_ENABLE``.

### Conclusion

Please refert to the following news for more details.

[News Release 12.0.4](/docs/news.html#release-12-0-4)

Let's search by Groonga!
