---
layout: post.en
title: Groonga 12.0.9 has been released
description: Groonga 12.0.9 has been released!
---

## Groonga 12.0.9 has been released

[Groonga 12.0.9](/docs/news.html#release-12-0-9) has been released!

How to install: [Install](/docs/install.html)

### Changes

Here are important changes in this release:

### Improvements

* [AlmaLinux](/docs/install/almalinux.html) Added support for AlmaLinux 9.
  
  We had added this support at Groonga 12.0.8 but haven't announced it.

* [escalate](/docs/reference/functions/escalate.html) Added a document for the `escalate()` function.

* [normalizers](/docs/reference/normalizers.html) Added `NormalizerHTML`. (Experimental)

  `NormalizerHTML` is a normalizer for HTML.

  Currently `NormalizerHTML` supports removing tags like `<span>` or `</span>` and expanding character references like `&amp;` or `&#38;`.

  Here are sample queries for `NormalizerHTML`.

  ```
  normalize NormalizerHTML "<span> Groonga &amp; Mroonga &#38; Rroonga </span>"
  [[0,1666923364.883798,0.0005481243133544922],{"normalized":" Groonga & Mroonga & Rroonga ","types":[],"checks":[]}]
  ```

  In this sample `<span>` and `</span>` are removed, and `&amp;` and `&#38;` are expanded to `&`.

  We can specify whether removing the tags with the `remove_tag` option.
  (The default value of the `remove_tag` option is `true`.)

  ```
  normalize 'NormalizerHTML("remove_tag", false)' "<span> Groonga &amp; Mroonga &#38; Rroonga </span>"
  [[0,1666924069.278549,0.0001978874206542969],{"normalized":"<span> Groonga & Mroonga & Rroonga </span>","types":[],"checks":[]}]
  ```

  In this sample, `<span>` and `</span>` are not removed.

  We can specify whether expanding the character references with the `expand_character_reference` option.
  (The default value of the `expand_character_reference` option is `true`.)

  ```
  normalize 'NormalizerHTML("expand_character_reference", false)' "<span> Groonga &amp; Mroonga &#38; Rroonga </span>"
  [[0,1666924357.099782,0.0002346038818359375],{"normalized":" Groonga &amp; Mroonga &#38; Rroonga ","types":[],"checks":[]}]
  ```

  In this sample, `&amp;` and `&#38;` are not expanded.

* [httpd] Updated bundled nginx to 1.23.2.

  Contains security fixes of CVE-2022-41741 and CVE-2022-41742.
  Please refer to https://nginx.org/en/CHANGES about these security fixes.

* Suppressed logging a lot of same messages when no memory is available.

  Groonga could log a lot of `mmap failed!!!!` when no memory is available.
  We improved to log the above message as less duplicates as possible.

### Fixes

* [select](/docs/reference/select.html) Fixed a bug that Groonga could crash or return incorrect results when specifying [n-workers](/docs/reference/select.html#select-n-workers).

  This bug had occurred when using `n-workers` with a value greater than `1` and `drilldowns[{LABEL}].filter` at the same time.

  The reason why this bug occurred was because Groonga referenced incorrect values (objects) when performing internal parallel processing.
  So if the condition above was satisfied, Groonga sometimes crashed or returned incorrect results depending on the timing of the parallel processing.

### Known Issues

* Currently, Groonga has a bug that there is possible that data is corrupt when we execute many additions, delete, and update data to vector column.

* `*<` and `*>` only valid when we use `query()` the right side of filter condition.
  If we specify as below, `*<` and `*>` work as `&&`.

    * `'content @ "Groonga" *< content @ "Mroonga"'`

* Groonga may not return records that should match caused by `GRN_II_CURSOR_SET_MIN_ENABLE`.

### Conclusion

Please refert to the following news for more details.

[News Release 12.0.9](/docs/news.html#release-12-0-9)

Let's search by Groonga!
