---
layout: post.en
title: Groonga 12.0.7 has been released
description: Groonga 12.0.7 has been released!
---

## Groonga 12.0.7 has been released

[Groonga 12.0.7](/docs/news.html#release-12-0-7) has been released!

How to install: [Install](/docs/install.html)

### Changes

Here are important changes in this release:

### Improvements

* Added a new function ``escalate()``. (experimental)

  The ``escalate()`` function is similar to the existing match escalation ( [Search](/docs/spec/search.html) ).
  We can use this function for any conditions. (The existing match escalation is just for one full text search by invert index.)

  The ``escalate()`` function is useful when we want to limit the number of results of a search.
  Even if we use ``--limit``, we can limit the number of results of a search. However, ``--limit`` is evaluated after evaluating all conditions in our query.
  The ``escalate()`` function finish the evaluation of conditions at that point when the result set has greater than ``THRESHOLD`` records. In other words, The ``escalate()`` function may reduce the number of evaluating conditions.

  The syntax of the ``escalate()`` function as below::

    ```
    escalate(THRESHOLD_1, CONDITION_1,
             THRESHOLD_2, CONDITION_2,
             ...,
             THRESHOLD_N, CONDITION_N)
    ```

  ``THRESHOLD_N`` is a positive number such as 0 and 29.
  ``CONDITION_N`` is a string that uses [script_syntax](/docs/reference/grn_expr/script_syntax.html) such as ``number_column > 29``.

  If the current result set has less than or equal to ``THRESHOLD_1`` records, the corresponding ``CONDITION_1`` is executed.
  Similarly, if the next result set has less than or equal to ``THRESHOLD_2`` records, the corresponding ``CONDITION_2`` is executed.
  If the next result set has greater than ``THRESHOLD_3`` records, the ``escalate()`` function is finished.

  If all ``CONDITION`` s are executed, ``escalate(THRESHOLD_1, CONDITION_1, ..., THRESHOLD_N, CONDITION_N)`` is same as ``CONDITION_1 || ... || CONDITION_N``.

  The ``escalate()`` function can be worked with logical operators such as ``&&`` and ``&!`` ::

    ```
    number_column > 10 && escalate(THRESHOLD_1, CONDITION_1,
                                   ...,
                                   THRESHOLD_N, CONDITION_N)
    number_column > 10 &! escalate(THRESHOLD_1, CONDITION_1,
                                   ...,
                                   THRESHOLD_N, CONDITION_N)
    ```

  They are same as ``number_column > 10 && (CONDITION_1 || ... || CONDITION_N)`` and ``number_column > 10 &! (CONDITION_1 || ... || CONDITION_N)`` .

  However, these behaviors may be changed because they may not be useful.

* [httpd] Updated bundled nginx to 1.23.1.

* [select](/docs/reference/commands/select.html) Add a document for the ``--n_workers`` option.

### Fixes

* Fixed a bug Groonga's response may be slow when we execute the ``request_cancel`` while executing a OR search.

  When the number of results of the OR search is many and a query has many OR conditions, Groonga may response slow with the "request_cancel" command.

### Known Issues

* Currently, Groonga has a bug that there is possible that data is corrupt when we execute many additions, delete, and update data to vector column.

* ``*<`` and ``*>`` only valid when we use ``query()`` the right side of filter condition.
  If we specify as below, ``*<`` and ``*>`` work as ``&&``.

    * ``'content @ "Groonga" *< content @ "Mroonga"'``

* Groonga may not return records that should match caused by ``GRN_II_CURSOR_SET_MIN_ENABLE``.

### Conclusion

Please refert to the following news for more details.

[News Release 12.0.7](/docs/news.html#release-12-0-7)

Let's search by Groonga!
