---
layout: post.en
title: Groonga 12.0.8 has been released
description: Groonga 12.0.8 has been released!
---

## Groonga 12.0.8 has been released

[Groonga 12.0.8](/docs/news.html#release-12-0-8) has been released!

How to install: [Install](/docs/install.html)

### Changes

Here are important changes in this release:

### Improvements

* Added a new function `escalate()`.

  We changed specification of the `escalate()` function as below.
  
  * Only use result sets inside ``escalate()`` for threshold.

    * Don't use the current result set out of ``escalate()``.

  * Threshold for the first condition isn't required. (e.g. `escalate(CONDITION1, THRESHOLD2, CONDITION2, ...)`)
  * Don't allow empty arguments call. The first condition is required.
  * The first condition is always executed.

* [cmake](/docs/install/cmake.html) Added a document about how to build Groonga with CMake.

* [others](/docs/install/others.html) Added descriptions about how to enable/disable Apache Arrow support when building with GNU Autotools.

* [select](/docs/reference/commands/select.html) Add a document about ``drilldowns.table``.

* [:doc:`contribution/documentation/i18n`] Updated the translation procedure.

### Known Issues

* Currently, Groonga has a bug that there is possible that data is corrupt when we execute many additions, delete, and update data to vector column.

* ``*<`` and ``*>`` only valid when we use ``query()`` the right side of filter condition.
  If we specify as below, ``*<`` and ``*>`` work as ``&&``.

    * ``'content @ "Groonga" *< content @ "Mroonga"'``

* Groonga may not return records that should match caused by ``GRN_II_CURSOR_SET_MIN_ENABLE``.

### Conclusion

Please refert to the following news for more details.

[News Release 12.0.7](/docs/news.html#release-12-0-7)

Let's search by Groonga!
