---
layout: post.en
title: Groonga 13.0.1 has been released
description: Groonga 13.0.1 has been released!
---

## Groonga 13.0.1 has been released

[Groonga 13.0.1](/docs/news.html#release-13-0-1) has been released!

How to install: [Install](/docs/install.html)

### Changes

Here are important changes in this release:

### Improvements

* [Normalizers](/docs/reference/normalizers.html) Added a new options for NormalizerNFKC*.

  We added the following options. We can use these options in all NormalizerNFKC.
  Please refer [NormalizerNFKC150](/docs/reference/normalizers/normalizer_nfkc150.html) about the detail of these options.

    * ``unify_kana_prolonged_sound_mark``
    * ``unify_kana_hyphen``
    * ``unify_katakana_trailing_o``

* Add support for MessagePack v6.0.0.

  Groonga can not found MessagePack v6.0.0 or later when we execute configure or cmake until now.
  Groonga can found MessagePack since this release even if the version of MessagePack is v6.0.0 or later.

### Fixes

* [highlight_html](/docs/reference/functions/highlight_html) Fixed a bug that highlight position may move over when we use `loose_symbol=true`.

* [Normalizers](/docs/reference/normalizers.html) Fixed a bug that NormalizerNFKC* did incorrect normalization.

  This bug occured when ``unify_kana_case`` and ``unify_katakana_v_sounds`` used at the same time.

  For example, ``ヴァ`` was normalized to ``バア`` with ``unify_kana_case`` and ``unify_katakana_v_sounds``, 
  but ``ヴァ`` should be normalized to ``バ``.

  This was because ``ヴァ`` was normalized to ``ヴア`` with ``unify_kana_case``, and after that, ``ヴア`` was normalized
  to ``バア`` with ``unify_katakana_v_sounds``. We fixed to normalize characters with ``unify_katakana_v_sounds`` before 
  ``unify_kana_case``.

  Here is an example of the bug in the previous version.

  ```
  normalize \
  'NormalizerNFKC150("unify_katakana_v_sounds", true, \
                    "unify_kana_case", true)' \
  "ヴァーチャル"
  #[
  #  [
  #    0,
  #    1678097412.913053,
  #    0.00019073486328125
  #  ],
  #  {
  #    "normalized":"ブアーチヤル",
  #    "types":[],
  #    "checks":[]
  #  }
  ```

  From this version, ``ヴァーチャル`` is normalized to ``バーチヤル``.

### Known Issues

* Currently, Groonga has a bug that there is possible that data is corrupt when we execute many additions, delete, and update data to vector column.

* `*<` and `*>` only valid when we use `query()` the right side of filter condition.

  If we specify as below, `*<` and `*>` work as `&&`.

  * `'content @ "Groonga" *< content @ "Mroonga"'`

* Groonga may not return records that should match caused by `GRN_II_CURSOR_SET_MIN_ENABLE`.

### Conclusion

Please refert to the following news for more details.

[News Release 13.0.1](/docs/news.html#release-13-0-1)

Let's search by Groonga!

