---
layout: post.en
title: Groonga 14.0.0 has been released
description: Groonga 14.0.0 has been released!
---

## Groonga 14.0.0 has been released

[Groonga 14.0.0](/docs/news/14.html#release-14-0-0) has been released!

How to install: [Install](/docs/install.html)

### Changes

Here are important changes in this release:

### Improvements

  * Added a new tokenizer `TokenH3Index` (experimental).

    `TokenH3Index`tokenizes WGS84GetPoint to UInt64(H3 index).

  * Added support for offline and online index construction with non text based tokenizer (experimental).

    `TokenH3Index` is one of non text based tokenizers.

  * [[select](/docs/reference/commands/select.html)] Added support for searching by index with non text based tokenizer (experimental).

    `TokenH3Index` is one of non text based tokenizers.

  * Added new functions `distance_cosine()`, `distance_inner_product()`, `distance_l2_norm_squared()`, `distance_l1_norm()`.

    We can only get records that a small distance as vector with these functions and `limit N`

    These functions calculate distance in the `output` stage.

    However, we don't optimaize these functions yet.

    * `distance_cosine()`: Calculate cosine similarity.
    * `distance_inner_product()`: Calculate inner product.
    * `distance_l2_norm_squared()`: Calculate euclidean distance.
    * `distance_l1_norm()`: Calculate manhattan distance.

  * Added a new function `number_round()`.

  * [[load](/docs/reference/commands/load.html)] Added support for parallel `load`.

    This feature only enable when the `input_type` of `load` is `apache-arrow`.

    This feature one thread per column. If there are many target columns, it will reduce load time.

  * [[select](/docs/reference/commands/select.html)] We can use uvector as much as possible for array literal in `--filter`.

    uvector is vector of elements with fix size.

    If all elements have the same type, we use uvector instead vector.

  * [[status](/docs/reference/commands/status.html)] Added `n_workers` to output of `status`.

  * Optimized a dynamic column creation.

  * [WAL] Added support for rebuilding broken indexes in parallel.

  * [[select](/docs/reference/commands/select.html)] Added support for `Int64` in `output_type=apache-arrow` for columns that reference other table.

### Fixes

  * [[Windws](/ja/docs/install/windows.html)] Fixed path for documents of `groonga-normalizer-mysql` in package for Windows.

    Documents of `groonga-normalizer-mysql` put under the `share/` in this release.

  * [[select](/docs/reference/commands/select.html)] Fixed a bug that Groonga may crash when we use bitwise operations.

### Conclusion

  Please refert to the following news for more details.
  [News Release 14.0.0](/docs/news/14.html#release-14-0-0)

  Let's search by Groonga!
